CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
| Our Journey to Sustainability | 
Our Journey to Sustainability
In 2019, Ferrari made significant and manifold  work with Ferrari to translate the most advanced 
strides on its journey to sustainability. This progress  theoretical research into solutions useful to its 
was driven by a strategy designed around the five  industrial processes. Start-ups too offer extremely 
pillars outlined below and cut across every area  interesting opportunities to foster a virtuous circle 
of the Group as well as its product and processes  of innovation. 
interventions and innovations. 
Proactively fostering best practice governance: 
Exceeding expectations: drive technological  maintain Ferrari’s corporate governance and risk 
innovation while pursuing excellence in design and  management systems aligned with best practices 
craftsmanship to fuel the passion of our customers  to ensure an ethical business conduct while 
and fans. providing superior and sustainable returns to our 
shareholders.
Innovation is part of Ferrari’s DNA, so we support 
and promote it both inside and outside the confines  Car manufacturers are subject to rapidly 
of the Company.  changing legislation and standards across the 
world. The European, US and Chinese markets in 
Our greatest source of innovation is our employees.  particular are being impacted by new regulations 
Through programmes such as Pole Position,  implemented in response to legitimate concerns 
we encourage them to think creatively and to  about vehicle safety, fuel consumption, noise levels 
communicate their ideas and solutions with regard  and environmental impact. 
to improving our products, methods and working 
environment. The response from our employees  Ferrari is committed to creating a culture 
in 2019 was extraordinary with around 20,000  of sustainability to address the complex scenario 
suggestions and proposals submitted, almost  the global automotive industry is now facing. 
double the previous year’s figure.  This culture demands efficient corporate 
governance and risk management, a proactive 
Another inexhaustible source of inspiration is the  decision-making process and openness to change, 
Scuderia Ferrari’s involvement in the Formula 1  all extending not just to our Company processes 
World Championship. Competing with the other  as a whole but through our entire supply chain.
teams at such an extremely high level acts as a 
constant stimulus to produce new technological  A focus on excellence in terms of the quality, 
solutions which are then transferred to our road  design and performance of our products, must be 
cars, the hybrid propulsion unit being a case  and is being flanked by responsible management 
in point.  of our relations with commercial partners, 
suppliers and dealers, who we encourage 
Ferrari also supports and promotes innovation  to adopt and share sustainable practices. 
outside the Company, through partnerships and  Specifically, all of our suppliers must comply 
synergies with other bodies and entities, including  with our Code of Conduct which is as much a 
some from different sectors to our own. Proof  condition of collaborating with Ferrari as the high 
of this comes from our many collaborations  quality standards of the goods or services they 
with universities and research centres. The latter  provide to us. 
Sustainability Report 2019 9