CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
| Reducing environmental footprint | 
Vehicles environmental impact
Part  of  the  environmental  impact  of  our  activities  is  related  to  our  product 
lifecycle. Ferrari cars are perceived as collectibles and therefore the number of 
cars demolished each year is very scarce. In addition, the cars are generally not 
considered means of transportation.
Vehicles emissions
electric steering and hybrid technologies, we 
continue to target further reductions in CO  
2
We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations  emissions and have set a target to reduce by 2020 
that, among others, are related to car emissions  CO  emissions by 15%(1) (compared to 2014) on our 
2
and fuel consumption. Ferrari vehicles must  entire fleet. 
comply with extensive regional, national and local 
laws and regulations, as well as industry self- Consistent with our mission to develop cutting edge 
regulations (including those that regulate vehicle  sports and GT cars, product development efforts 
safety). However, we currently benefit from certain  continually focus on improving core components 
regulatory exemptions because we qualify as a Small  such as the powertrain, car dynamics and the use 
Volume Manufacturer or similar designation in  of materials such as special aluminum alloys and 
most of the jurisdictions where we sell our cars  carbon fiber. The expertise acquired in these fields 
(for more details refer to the “Regulatory Matters”  has recently enhanced our efforts to combine 
paragraph of 2019 Annual Report). improved performance with reductions in CO  
2
emissions.
15%
Ferrari has set a target to reduce CO emission by 
2
on its entire fleet by 2020 (compared to 2014) These efforts, through the investment of huge 
resources, allow the reduction of CO  emissions 
2
We continue focusing on researching technologies  and fuel consumption thanks to the development 
that further reduced emissions, such as hybrid  of CO  emission reducing technologies. The 
2
engines. We started working with hybrid technology  main technologies deployed so far in the Ferrari 
back in 2011, when we introduced the HY-KERS  fleet are: the 8-gear Dual Clutch Transmission, 
(Kinetic Energy Recovery System) technology in our  optimized smart alternator, brake by wire with 
F1 cars, which was transferred in 2013 to LaFerrari,  regenerative braking strategy and weight reduction, 
our first road car to use hybrid technology. Further  improved aerodynamic rims for drag reduction, 
enhancing the hybrid technologies in 2014, we  gasoline direct injection (200-350 bar), start 
introduced hybrid power units in our F1 cars and,  & stop with improved direct start, increased 
in 2019 we launched the SF90 Stradale, our first  compression ratio, multi-spark ignition, low friction 
hybrid series-production car. synchromesh device, downsizing, finger follower 
valve actuation with rollers, variable displacement 
Through innovations in areas such as  oil pump with variable feed pressure and smart 
turbochargers, engine downsizing, transmission,  cooling (transmission). As an example, in 2015 we 
(1)  The target considered the expectations until 2020 of Group’s homologated shipments and the CO2 emissions values according to 
requirements set by the European Union.
Sustainability Report 2019 101