CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
Vehicle’s end of life The originality of the car with respect to the 
initial specifications is checked via a technical 
We are not directly involved in product take back  inspection, performed either at the Ferrari 
programs due to the nature of our business: the  Classiche facility in Maranello or at an authorized 
number of Ferrari cars demolished each year is very  Officina Ferrari Classiche, and benefits from a 
scarce as Ferrari cars are perceived as collectibles,  comprehensive archive containing drawings of each 
which the Group also supports through its “Ferrari  of the individual chassis and details of historical 
Classiche” services, and the active preowned  components. Based on the evidence gathered 
market.  during this inspection, the car is then presented to 
an expert committee, chaired by the founder’s son, 
The Ferrari Classiche department aims to provide  Piero Ferrari, for the certification.
Ferrari customers with a point of reference for 
managing their historic Ferrari vehicles with the  At the Maranello workshop, Ferrari Classiche 
objective of keeping as many of these classic  carries out full restorations using either original 
cars on the road as possible. Services include the  components and spare parts or replicas 
certification of the authenticity of classic Ferrari  manufactured in accordance with the original 
cars and vehicles of particular historical relevance,  specifications. Our service offers our clients the 
the management of Ferrari restoration and repair  opportunity to restore any classic Ferrari to its 
activities, as well as the management of Ferrari  original pristine conditions.
spare parts, including when these are no longer 
available on the market. The department also  The Ferrari Classiche department also provides 
provides advice on repair operations carried out on  basic technical and instructional support to the 
Ferrari Classiche cars within its network. Ferrari Classiche Academy, a new driving school 
project that launched in 2019 for vintage Ferrari 
Ferrari Classiche aims to create a platform of  cars, including the Ferrari 308 and 550 Maranello.
information and technical expertise to preserve 
and enhance over time the awareness and value of 
Ferrari’s heritage and brand. We view the surviving 
Ferrari vehicles of historical value as the tangible 
legacy and incarnation of our brand. The Ferrari 
Classiche department also supports and encourages 
the direct participation of clients in strategic 
historical events.
The Ferrari Classiche department in Maranello 
consists of an office of specialists and a workshop 
in which historic cars are restored and repaired. In 
addition, in order to provide an enhanced service 
to owners away from the proximity of the main 
workshop in Maranello, starting in 2017 Ferrari 
Classiche authorized a new service network with 
73 “Officina Ferrari Classiche” workshops to date, 
primarily for vehicle repairs and the certifications’ 
inspections or revalidation, and the network is 
expected to expand in future periods.
104 Sustainability Report 2019