CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
/ Our Journey to Sustainability
Being the employer of choice: provide an  With the presentation in May 2019 of the SF90 
inclusive, educational and inspiring work  Stradale, Ferrari’s first production hybrid model, 
environment to unleash everyone’s passion,  we embarked upon a new phase of hybridising 
creativity and talent. the range. On the one hand, this technological 
solution ensures Ferrari complies with both legal 
Behind every Company’s success story are the men  requirements and the desire to combat emissions 
and women who work there every day. In Ferrari,  shared with our clients, while on the other, it will 
the pursuit of excellence in its products goes hand- raise the driving pleasure and fun behind the wheel 
in-glove with the pursuit of a quality working life,  that makes our car unique to new heights. 
the wellbeing and the professional development of 
our employees. In recent years, this has been the  Our commitment to reducing our environmental 
fulcrum of a growing number of specific, carefully  impact is nothing new, however, and has already 
crafted programmes.  produced impressive results. In 2019, the Group 
achieved its objective of reducing the CO  emissions 
2
The first programme targets skills development  of its European fleet by 35% compared to 2007 
as the prerequisite for successfully tackling future  levels. We are now aiming for an even more 
challenges. Last year, we achieved a record of over  ambitious target of reducing emissions by 15% 
57,600 hours of training, an increase of 12% on  compared to 2014 across the entire fleet by 2020. 
2018. The educational options on offer also grew 
in parallel due to our partnership with Harvard  In 2019, Ferrari delivered another important result 
Business School, which has made one of the most  which saw it decouple its economic growth from 
advanced online learning platforms in the world  the carbon footprint of its premises in Maranello 
available to our employees. and Modena. The CO  emissions of those premises 
2
remained generally on a par with the previous 
Another area of Ferrari excellence is its wellbeing  year, despite a net increase in output. This was 
and welfare programme for employees and  as a result of investment in plant, the application 
their families. This spans a series of services  of circular economy principles to certain 
and opportunities ranging from study grants to  processes, and meticulous management of energy 
recreational activities and free medical visits as  requirements. 87% of the latter were also covered 
part of “Formula Benessere”. The latter was further  by the trigeneration system in Maranello, while 
extended in 2019 with “Formula Benessere Donna”  almost 95% of the remaining energy shortfall was 
specifically designed for women. In the course  purchased from certified renewable sources. 
of the year, Ferrari employees and their children 
availed themselves of over 4,500 medical and  That said, we have no intention of resting on our 
specialist check-ups.  laurels with these results. In the course of 2020, 
we will begin calculating our carbon footprint on 
Reducing environmental footprint: increase our  a subset of products and processes, an essential 
environmental awareness to continuously set and  factor in tackling our goal to become ultimately 
implement related programs and actions.  carbon neutral over the longer term. 
10 Sustainability Report 2019