CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
| Creating and sharing value with the community | 
In a ceremony attended by Ferrari Chairman John  The Motorvehicle University of Emilia-Romagna 
Elkann on November 6, 2019, Amatrice’s new  hub aims at attracting the best university students 
Istituto Omnicomprensivo Multi-school Campus,  from all over the world, with the goal of training 
was officially named in honor of the late   and introducing into the corporate world the 
Sergio Marchionne. Ferrari will continue its  engineers of tomorrow. The training offer is 
relationship with the Istituto Sergio Marchionne,  composed of two different master’s degrees, 
which was originally built in the aftermath of the  Advanced Automotive Engineering (AAE) and 
earthquake that devastated Central Italy in 2016  Advanced Automotive Electronic Engineering 
and will be offering top students an educational  (AAEE), during which all the partners of the 
experience in Maranello.  initiative participate in educational activities 
through seminars, laboratories and lessons, and 
Ferrari has established collaborations with leading  by inviting students to visit production plants. 
universities worldwide that include the possibility  We invest a lot in this activity, to the point that 
for students to develop Bachelor and Doctoral  some of our Maestri hold a few classes sharing 
theses as well as other research projects. their exclusive Ferrari knowledge. In 2019, the 
number of enrollments in the two master’s degrees 
Ferrari is partner of the Motorvehicle University of  increased, with about a fifth of the students 
Emilia-Romagna (MUNER), an association which  coming from foreign countries. The goal of this 
was strongly advocated by the Emilia-Romagna  project is to foster the creation of a critical mass 
region. It was created thanks to a synergistic  of professionals with the skills needed for the 
connection among the universities of Modena and  automotive of the future. October 24, 2019, saw 
Reggio Emilia, Bologna, Ferrara and Parma along  the graduation of the first 25 students of MUNER. 
with car companies in the region that represent 
the excellence of Italian brands, which of course 
includes Ferrari. 
Sustainability Report 2019 111