CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
Ferrari Driver Academy
The Ferrari Driver Academy was founded with  Leclerc joined at the beginning of 2016 and within 
the aim of providing young drivers with a training  two years won the GP3 and F2 championships. 
program that will ultimately reward them with a  Two years ago, he raced in Formula One with Alfa 
career in a F1 Prancing Horse car. Romeo Sauber and from 2019 he is racing for 
Scuderia Ferrari as an official Driver. 
The Ferrari Driver Academy focuses on fostering 
the growth and training of talented young drivers  The Ferrari Driver Academy’s mission is to train 
who are hand-picked from the international motor  drivers, not merely from a racing point of view, but 
racing arena. The aim is to provide these drivers  also to develop them personally and professionally 
with a 360-degree preparation for a future in the  through a program that spans several years. The 
world of Formula 1 or GT racing. In addition,  focus is on developing both the person and the 
the project also encompasses initiatives designed  professional at a time in their life when they are 
to promote motorsport in Italy and abroad with  growing rapidly, by providing them with all the 
partnerships to support youth championships in  required tools to make the right choices at the right 
Europe, America and Asia. time. Hence the idea of creating a “Campus” where 
the young drivers can live and breathe motorsport 
The first driver to enter the program was Jules  and, even more importantly, Ferrari, 24 hours a day.
Bianchi in December 2009. The Academy’s line-
up for 2020 will count nine drivers: Giuliano Alesi,  In 2019, we had a successful year in Formula 
Callum Ilott, Mick Schumacher, Marcus Armstrong,  3 Championship, with Robert Schwartzman 
Robert Shwartzman, Enzo Fittipaldi, Arthur Leclerc,  clinching the title and Marcus Armstrong 
Gianluca Petecof and Dino Beganovic. Charles  obtaining second place.
114 Sustainability Report 2019