CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
Methodology and scope
Through our Sustainability Report, we aim to  plant in Modena and for our Mugello racing 
provide our stakeholders with non-financial  circuit. Any exceptions, with regard to the scope 
information, illustrate our sustainability strategy  of this data, are clearly indicated throughout the 
and our corporate social responsibility initiatives  Sustainability Report.
in 2019 (from January 1st, 2019 to December 
31st, 2019) to ensure transparent and structured  Directly measurable quantities have been 
communication with our stakeholders.  included, while limiting, as far as possible, the 
use of estimates. Any estimated data is indicated 
This Sustainability Report was prepared under  accordingly, additionally certain totals in the tables 
the supervision of Ferrari Group’s Chief Financial  included in this document may not add due to 
Officer, in compliance with the “GRI Sustainability  rounding.
Reporting Standards” established in 2016 by GRI 
– Global Reporting Initiative, and in accordance  During the reporting period, we did not face any 
with the GRI Standards: Core option. Several  significant change concerning the organization’s 
operating departments of the Group have been  size, structure, ownership or supply chain.
actively involved in the process of data gathering 
and report drafting, in order to shape this  The reporting frequency will be annual.
Sustainability Report. This has been shared with 
the Executive Officers of the Group and with the  The Report is subject to a limited assurance 
Governance and Sustainability Committee of the  engagement in accordance with the criteria 
Board of Directors. established by the principle ISAE 3000 (Revised) by 
EY S.p.A, which, at the end of the work performed, 
With regard to the financial data, the scope of  released the Independent Auditors’ Report.
reporting corresponds to that of Ferrari N.V.’s 
Consolidated Financial Statements. This Sustainability Report is also available online
at www.ferrari.com. Please refer to the Investor 
Regarding the qualitative and quantitative data  Relations and Sustainability department for your 
on social and environmental aspects, the scope  inquiries about Ferrari’s sustainability strategy
of reporting corresponds to Ferrari N.V. and our  (email: ir@ferrari.com).
subsidiaries consolidated on a line-by-line basis 
(as indicated in the note 3 “Scope of consolidation”  For each of the 20 topics that emerged as being 
of 2019 Annual Report). Environmental data  material, in order to identify where the issue 
and information is reported for our principal  generates an impact and thus determining its 
manufacturing facility in Maranello, for our second  relevance, a specific boundary was identified. 
116 Sustainability Report 2019