CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
| Our Journey to Sustainability | 
Creating and Sharing value within the community:  Omnicomprensivo school building in Amatrice 
encourage strategic partnerships and the creation  which was officially opened last November by 
of positive externalities for all stakeholders  Chairman John Elkann and named in honour of 
the late Sergio Marchionne. Ferrari provided a 
Ferrari is a global Group with deep roots in the  large part of the funds required for its construction 
Motor Valley community and our first goal is to  by auctioning a LaFerrari after the earthquake 
promote activities designed to fuel education.  devastated Central Italy in 2016. 
Its longstanding relationship with the local area 
extends to schools, such as, for example, the  As a hugely iconic brand all over the world, Ferrari 
Alfredo Ferrari Technical High School in Maranello,  also aims to make its presence felt beyond Italy’s 
which it supports and with which it shares work  borders. Once again, the focus is on education 
commencement and orienteering projects. Ferrari  through a network of relationships with prestigious 
is also involved with the MUNER (Motorvehicle  universities whose students are given the 
University of Emilia-Romagna) Project which pools  opportunity to collaborate with the company on 
the knowledge of the various universities of Emilia  degree theses, doctoral dissertations and research 
Romagna and the know-how of Motor Valley’s  projects. 
leading companies. Ferrari’s relationship with the 
local area is also further strengthened by the two  Ferrari is using these five pillars to pursue its 
Ferrari Museums which attracted over 600,000  development in a manner open to innovation and 
visitors to Modena and Maranello in the course of  the sharing of ideas and projects to help both its 
the year, acting as a driver for the tourist industry in  employees and technology growing and flourish. 
the entire area.  In other words, development in which sustainability 
  plays an essential role in mapping out the 
The Group’s commitment to education also  Company’s future but also that of the car sector as 
quite literally took physical shape in the Istituto  a whole. 
Sustainability Report 2019 11