CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
About Ferrari
Ferrari is among the world’s leading luxury brands focused on the design, engineering, 
production and sale of the world’s most recognizable luxury performance sports cars.
Our brand symbolizes exclusivity, innovation, state-of-the-art sporting performance 
and Italian design, craftsmanship and engineering heritage. Our name and history 
and the image enjoyed by our cars are closely associated with our Formula 1 racing 
team, Scuderia Ferrari, the most successful team in Formula 1 history. From the 
inaugural year of Formula 1 in 1950 through the present, Scuderia Ferrari has won 
238 Grand Prix races, 16 Constructor World titles and 15 Drivers’ World titles. 
We believe our history of excellence, technological innovation and defining style transcends 
the automotive industry, and is the foundation of the Ferrari brand and image. 
We design, engineer and produce our cars in Maranello, Italy, and sell them in over 
60 markets worldwide through a network of 166 authorized dealers operating 187 
points of sale as of the end of 2019.
We believe our cars are the epitome of  F8 Tributo commencing in the fourth quarter of 
performance, luxury and styling. Our product  2019 and shipments of the other cars expected to 
offering comprises four main pillars: the sports  commence in 2020.
range, the GT range, special series and Icona, a 
line of modern cars inspired by our iconic cars of  Whilst broadening our product portfolio to target 
the past. Our current product range (including  a larger customer base, we continue to pursue 
cars presented in 2019, for which shipments will  a low volume production strategy in order to 
commence in 2020) is comprised of five sports  maintain a reputation for exclusivity and scarcity 
cars (SF90 Stradale, F8 Tributo, F8 Spider, 812  among purchasers of our cars and we carefully 
Superfast and 812 GTS), four GT cars (Ferrari  manage our production volumes and delivery 
Roma, Ferrari Portofino, GTC4Lusso and  waiting lists to promote this reputation. We 
GTC4Lusso T) and two special series cars (488  divide our regional markets into EMEA, Americas, 
Pista and 488 Pista Spider), as well as two versions  Mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, and Rest 
of our first Icona car, the Ferrari Monza SP1 and  of APAC, representing respectively 48.3 percent, 
the Ferrari Monza SP2. We also produce limited  28.6 percent, 8.3 percent and 14.8 percent of units 
edition hypercars, fuori serie and one-off cars. Our  shipped in 2019.
most recent hypercar, the LaFerrari Aperta, was 
launched in 2016 to celebrate our 70th Anniversary  We focus our marketing and promotion efforts in 
and finished its limited series run in 2018. In  the investments we make in our racing activities and 
2019, we unveiled the SF90 Stradale (our first  in particular, Scuderia Ferrari’s participation in the 
series production Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicle  Formula 1 World Championship, which is one of 
(PHEV)), the F8 Tributo, the F8 Spider, the 812  the most watched annual sports series in the world, 
GTS and the Ferrari Roma, with shipments of the  with approximately 405.5 million unique television 
14 Sustainability Report 2019