CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
| Ferrari Group | 
viewers in 2019 in the top 20(1) markets (Source:  positioned to selectively expand the presence of 
Formula 1 Press Office). Although our most recent  the Ferrari brand in attractive and growing lifestyle 
Formula 1 world title was in 2008, we continuously  categories consistent with our image, including 
enhance our focus on Formula 1 activities with the  sportswear, watches, accessories, consumer 
goal of improving racing results and restoring our  electronics and theme parks which, we believe, 
historical position as the premier racing team in  enhance the brand experience of our loyal clients 
Formula 1. We believe that these activities support  and Ferrari enthusiasts.
the strength and awareness of our brand among 
motor enthusiasts, clients and the general public. We will continue focusing our efforts on protecting 
and enhancing the value of our brand to preserve 
We license the Ferrari brand to a selected number  our strong financial profile and participate in the 
of producers and retailers of luxury and lifestyle  growth of the premium luxury market. We intend to 
goods. In addition, we design, source and sell  selectively pursue controlled and profitable growth 
Ferrari-branded products through a network of  in existing and emerging markets while expanding the 
20 Ferrari-owned stores and 24 franchised stores  Ferrari brand to carefully selected lifestyle categories.
(including 15 Ferrari Store Junior), as well as on 
our website. As one of the world’s most recognized  The charts below set forth our unit shipments(2) for the 
premium luxury brands, we believe we are well  year ended December 31, 2019, by geographic market:
Units Shipped in 2019(3)
28 48 8 14
.6% .3% .3% .8%
Americas EMEA Mainland  Rest of APAC
China, Hong Kong
and Taiwan
(1)  Top 20 markets are, in alphabetical order, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, China, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Mexico, 
Netherlands, Pan Africa, Pan Latin America, Pan Middle East, Pan Russia, Poland, Russia, United Kingdom and United States.
(2)  Excluding the XX Progamme, racing cars, Fuori Serie, one-off and pre-owned cars.
(3)  Shipments geographical breakdown: EMEA includes: Italy, UK, Germany, Switzerland, France, Middle East (includes the United Arab 
Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Lebanon, Qatar, Oman and Kuwait) and Rest of EMEA (includes Africa and the other European markets 
not separately identified); Americas includes: United States of America, Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and Central and South America; 
Rest of APAC mainly includes: Japan, Australia, Singapore, Indonesia, South Korea, Thailand and Malaysia
Sustainability Report 2019 15