CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
| Ferrari Group | 
Our  INDIVIDUAL AND TEAM EMOTION
VALUES People are our greatest resource  Ferrari - an experience 
but even they can only achieve  to be embraced 
truly great results if working  wholeheartedly with pride 
as a team in a company that  and enthusiasm.  
prioritises merit, competency  The challenges that arise 
and professional growth. Ferrari  each day remind us that 
employees enjoy a strong sense  we are part of a unique 
of belonging, relish challenge  and truly extraordinary 
and strive to improve both  company that inspires 
themselves and their company  huge emotions in all of us.
each and every day.
INTEGRITY TRADITION   PASSION 
We are conscious of  AND INNOVATION AND EXCELLENCE
being part of a world- We represent a company in which  We are driven by our passion for 
renowned company  tradition and innovation are  both the road and the track. The 
and are thus committed  melded each and every day to fuel  challenge we relish most is to set 
to adhering to the  the Ferrari legend. Our rich heritage  ambitious targets and guarantee 
core values of respect,  and ability to combine developing  our clients’ complete satisfaction. 
honesty, loyalty and  extreme technological solutions  We observe the outside world 
consistency.   with human-scale artisanal  with open-minded curiosity to 
We strive to guarantee a  craftsmanship are a direct result  help grow our own competencies. 
sustainable future. of our company history and the  We are committed to the pursuit 
international and multicultural  of excellence on a daily basis.
context in which we operate.
Our  CONTROLLED 
GROWTH
STRATEGY
Our strategy focuses on maintaining our leading position in 
the luxury performance sports car market, while enhancing 
and protecting the value and exclusivity of the Ferrari brand. 
We focus on cost-efficiencies and aim to achieve profitable 
growth by pursuing the following strategies.
REGULAR NEW MODEL  PURSUE EXCELLENCE  CONTROLLED  
INTRODUCTIONS   IN RACING GROWTH IN ADJACENT 
AND ENHANCEMENTS LUXURY AND LIFESTYLE 
CATEGORIES
Sustainability Report 2019 17