CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope Forward-Looking Statements GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
Ferrari Line-Up Strategic Pillars
Our product offering comprises four main strategic  We are also actively engaged in after sales activities 
pillars: the sports range, the GT range, special series  driven, among other things, by the objective of 
and Icona. Our current product range includes  preserving and extending the market value of the 
five sports cars, four GT cars and two special  cars we sell. We believe our cars’ performance 
series cars, as well as our Icona cars, introduced  in terms of value preservation after a period of 
in September 2018 with the Ferrari Monza SP1  ownership significantly exceeds that of any other 
and SP2. We target end clients seeking high  brand in the luxury car segment. High residual value 
performance cars with distinctive design and state  is important to the primary market because clients, 
of the art technology. Our broad model range is  when purchasing our cars, take into account the 
designed to fulfill the strategy of “Different Ferrari  expected resale value of the car in assessing the 
for different Ferraristi, different Ferrari for different  overall cost of ownership. Furthermore, a higher 
moments”, which means being able to offer a highly  residual value potentially lowers the cost for the 
differentiated product line-up that can meet the  owner to switch to a new model thereby supporting 
varying needs of new customer segments (in terms  client loyalty and promoting repeat purchases.
of sportiness, comfort, on-board space, design) and 
that can allow our existing clients to use a Ferrari in  The charts below set forth the percentage of our unit 
every moment of their lives. Our diversified product  shipments (excluding the XX Programme, racing cars, 
offering includes different architectures (such as  Fuori Serie, one-off and pre-owned cars) for the year 
front-engine and mid-rear engine), engine sizes  ended December 31, 2019 by pillar:
(V8 and V12), technologies (atmospheric, 
turbo-charged, hybrid, electric), body styles 
(such as coupes and spiders), and seats (2 seaters, 
2+2 seaters and 4 seaters).
Shipments by pillar(1)
Sport & Special Series
64%
GT
36%
Icona
<1%
(1)  Includes shipments of the LaFerrari Aperta. Shipments of Icona cars commenced in 2019, and contributed to less than 1 percent of our 
shipments for that year.
20 Sustainability Report 2019