CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope Forward-Looking Statements GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
Special Series Limited Edition Hypercars,  
Fuori Serie and One-Off
From time to time, we also design, engineer and 
produce special series cars which can be limited  In line with our tradition of hypercars starting with 
in time or volume and are usually based on our  the 288GTO in 1984 up to the Enzo in 2002 and 
range sports models but introduce novel product  the LaFerrari Aperta, our latest hypercar launched 
concepts. These cars are characterized by significant  in 2016, we also produce limited edition hypercars. 
modifications designed to enhance performance  These are the highest expression of Ferrari road 
and driving emotions. Our special series cars are  car performance at the time and are often the 
particularly targeted to collectors and, from a  forerunners of technological innovations for 
commercial and product development standpoint,  future range models, with innovative features and 
they facilitate the transition from existing to new  futuristic design. Furthermore, in connection with 
range models. Our current special series cars are the  certain events or celebrations, we also launch very 
488 Pista, powered by a 720 hp V8 engine, and its  limited edition cars (our fuori serie). These models 
retractable hard top version, the 488 Pista Spider  can be offered globally, or may be limited to specific 
(720 hp). local markets. Based on an exotic product concept 
not available on the standard Ferrari model range, 
these cars feature completely unique design and 
Icona
specifications compared to our other models.
In September 2018, we introduced a new pillar  Finally, in order to meet the varying needs of our 
of our product portfolio: the Icona, a unique  most loyal and discerning clients, we also produce a 
concept that takes inspiration from the iconic cars  very limited number of one-off models. While based 
of our history and reinterprets them in a modern  on the chassis and equipped with engines of one 
fashion, pairing timeless design with state-of-the- of the current range models for homologation and 
art materials and technology. The first examples of  registration purposes, these cars reflect the exact 
this strictly limited-edition product line-up are the  exterior and interior design specifications requested 
Ferrari Monza SP1 and SP2, which are inspired by  by the clients, and are produced as a single, unique 
the classic collectible barchetta cars, the 750Monza  car. Some of the most iconic models emerged from 
and 860Monza. our One-Off program include the SP12 EC (inspired 
by the 512 BB and created in 2011), the F12 TRS (a 
radical two-seat roadster created on the platform of 
the F12berlinetta in 2014), the SP38 (a superlative 
mid-rear V8 turbo taking inspiration from the 
legendary Ferrari F40), the 458MM Speciale (the last 
mid rear model with a V8 natural aspirated engine 
in 2016) and the P80/C, a real track car taking 
inspiration from past Ferrari Sport Prototipo models.
22 Sustainability Report 2019