CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
| Our Business | 
Personalization Offer 
All of our models feature highly customizable interior  option, various door panel configurations, steering 
and exterior options, which are included in our  wheel inserts and state of the art custom high 
personalization catalogue. Some of these options  fidelity sound systems. Commencing with the the 
include performance contents like carbon fibre  SF90 Stradale, we have also introduced the “Assetto 
parts, carbon fibre wheels, titanium exhaust systems,  Fiorano” configuration, which provides numerous 
alternative brake caliper colors, parking cameras,  exclusive features for those who seek radical 
MagneRide dual mode suspension, panoramic roof  performance and design.
Personalization by Level and Location
Where (Sales Channel) How (Initiatives)
1 Maranello
One-off
TM Center
@Maranello
New sales toolbox
@Shanghai
Tailor Made @New York
Atelier
3 @Maranello
@New York New Special 
Special Equipment Equipment Process
Dealership
with Special  Continuous enrichment 
4 Equipment of OPT list
Personalization Program 
“Carrozzeria Scaglietti” Dealership
With our “Special Equipment” program,  client. Our clients benefit from a large selection 
we offer clients additional customization  of finishes and accessories in an array of different 
choices for their cars. Our specialists are able  materials (ranging from cashmere to denim), 
to guide clients in creating a very customized  treatments and hues. To assist our clients’ choice we 
car through a wide catalog of special items  also offer three collections inspired by Ferrari’s own 
such as different types of rare leathers, custom  tradition: Scuderia (taking its lead from our sporting 
stitching, special paints, special carbon fiber, and  history), Classica (bringing a modern twist to the 
personalized luggage sets designed to match the  styling cues of our signature GT models) and Inedita 
car’s interior. (showcasing more experimental and innovation-led 
personalization).
The “Tailor Made” program provides an additional 
level of personalization in accordance with the  The “One-off” program is the maximum level of 
expectations of our clients. A dedicated Ferrari  personalization and exclusivity. See “—Limited 
designer assists clients in selecting and applying  Edition Hypercars, Fuori Serie and One-Offs” above for 
virtually any specific design element chosen by the  more details.
Sustainability Report 2019 25