CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope Forward-Looking Statements GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
Formula 1 Activities 
Participation in the Formula 1 World Championship  in 1950, and won its first Grand Prix in 1951. We 
with Scuderia Ferrari is the core element of our  are the only team that has competed in each season 
marketing effort and an important source of  since launch and the oldest and most successful 
technological innovation for the engineering,  in the history of Formula 1, with 238 Grand Prix 
development and production of our sports, GT  wins. Throughout our racing history, we have won 
and special series cars. The Formula 1 World  15 Drivers’ Championships and 16 Constructors’ 
Championship is the pinnacle of motorsports with a  Championships, more than any other team. Many 
total global TV cumulative audience of 1.922 billion  of the best known drivers in the sport’s history 
in 2019, the highest number since 2012, which  have raced in Scuderia Ferrari’s distinctive red cars 
represents an increase of 9% compared to 2018. In  including Alberto Ascari, Juan-Manuel Fangio, Mike 
terms of unique television viewers, during 2019 the  Hawthorn, Phil Hill, John Surtees, Niki Lauda, Jody 
sport remained stable in the top 20 markets(1) at  Scheckter, Gilles Villeneuve, Michael Schumacher 
approximately 405.5 million (+0.3 percent)  and Kimi Raikkonen. Our drivers’ line-up in 2019 
(Source: Formula 1 Press Office). comprised four-time World Champion Sebastian 
Vettel, who joined Ferrari at the beginning of 2015, 
In 2019 the number of users across Formula 1’s  and Charles Leclerc, the first graduate of the Ferrari 
social media platforms again grew significantly, with  Driver Academy training scheme to race for our 
the total number of followers on Facebook, Twitter,  Formula 1 race team.
Instagram and YouTube reaching 24.9m (+32.9 
percent compared to 2018). Again in 2019, Formula  For Scuderia Ferrari, 2019 was very much a year of 
1’s social media channels were the fastest growing  reorganization, with many team members taking on 
of all major sports leagues in the world. new roles, including Mattia Binotto, who stepped up 
to the role of Team Principal, and one half of the driver 
Formula 1 cars rely on advanced technology,  line-up was renewed. During the past season, Scuderia 
powerful hybrid engines and cutting edge  Ferrari achieved three wins, nine pole positions, 19 
aerodynamics. While Europe is the sport’s  podiums and 504 points. Its drivers led for a total of 
traditional base, longstanding non-European venues  406 laps, approximately a third of the total number of 
such as Australia, Brazil, Canada, Japan, Mexico and  race laps over the entire season, and the team finished 
the United States have recently been joined by racing  second in the Constructors’ Championship.
venues in China, Bahrain, United Arab Emirates, 
Singapore and Azerbaijan. A new venue in Vietnam  Participation in the Formula 1 World Championship 
has been launched in 2020, while the Dutch Grand  is regulated by bilateral Team Agreements entered 
Prix has returned after several decades. This provides  into between Formula 1 World Championship 
participants in the Formula 1 World Championship  Limited (FOWC), Formula 1’s commercial rights 
exceptional visibility on the world stage. holder, and each competing Formula 1 racing team 
(including Scuderia Ferrari) and by regulations issued 
Scuderia Ferrari has been racing in the Formula 1  by the Federation Internationale de l’Automobile 
World Championship since the series was launched  (FIA), the motorsport’s governing body.
(1)  Top 20 markets are, in alphabetical order, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, China, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Mexico, 
Netherlands, Pan Africa, Pan Latin America, Pan Middle East, Pan Russia, Poland, Russia, United Kingdom and United States.
26 Sustainability Report 2019