CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope Forward-Looking Statements GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
/ Formula 1 Activities
The Team Agreements cover the 2013-2020 racing  To maximize the performance, efficiency and safety 
seasons and govern the terms by which the racing  of our Formula 1 cars, while complying with the 
teams take their share of commercial profits.  strict technical rules and restrictions set out by the 
The FIA sets both the sporting and technical  FIA, our research and development team plays a key 
regulations for the competitions. In return for  role in the development of our road cars and their 
their participation in Formula 1 races the teams  engines. We often transfer technologies initially 
receive a share of a prize fund based on the  developed for racing to our road cars. Examples 
profits earned from Formula 1 related commercial  include steering wheel paddles for gear-shifting, 
activities managed by FOWC, including in  the use and development of composite materials, 
particular, television broadcasting royalties and  which makes cars lighter and faster, and technology 
other sources. Shares in the prize fund are paid to  related to hybrid propulsion.
the teams, largely based on the relative ranking of 
each team in the championship. We use our share  Our road cars (especially our sports car models) 
of these payments to defray part of the costs  have benefited from the know-how acquired in the 
associated with Scuderia Ferrari, including the  wind tunnel by our racing car development teams, 
costs of designing and producing the race cars  enjoying greater stability as they reach high speeds 
each year and the costs associated with managing  on and off the track. Our research and development 
a racing team including the salaries of the drivers,  team focused on combining minimal lap times 
who are typically among the most highly paid  with maximum efficiency, leading to advances in 
athletes in the world. New regulations were  kinetic energy recovery system, or ERS, technology. 
introduced in 2019, relating to aerodynamics,  Current advanced ERS features two electric motor/
drivers’ weight, fuel allowance and the  generator units in every car, which allow the car to 
requirement for drivers to wear biometric gloves  recover, store and deploy energy generated both by 
for additional safety. The discussions to establish  the vehicle during braking and by the exhaust gases 
the sport’s regulations which will apply from 2021  through a turbocharger.
onwards continued during 2019. The new rules 
were approved by the World Council on October  The high brand visibility we achieve through 
31, 2019, with the understanding that they will be  participation in the Formula 1 World 
subject to further discussions between F1, the FIA  Championship has historically enabled us to 
and the teams over the coming months, which  benefit from significant sponsorship. Philip Morris 
may lead to further changes between now and  International has been Scuderia Ferrari’s partner 
2021. Please see 2019 Annual Report  for over forty years and currently remains our Title 
“Risk Factors—Our revenues from Formula 1 activities  Partner. Starting from October 2018, the “Mission 
may decline and our related expenses may grow”. Winnow” logo has appeared on the cars’ livery 
and drivers’ overalls. Mission Winnow is a Philip 
Improvements in technology and, from time to  Morris International global campaign aimed at 
time, changes in regulation require the design  driving change by constantly searching for better 
and production of a new racing car every year.  ways of doing things. Shell has also been a long 
Therefore, in addition to our long-term research  term Sponsor and Technical Partner of Scuderia 
and development efforts, we begin designing our  Ferrari (supporting the team continuously since 
cars each year in the Spring, in anticipation of the  1996).  
start of the racing season the following March.  The other partners of the Team are divided into 
While the chassis we build each year are designed to  three different categories (Sponsor, Official 
be used throughout the racing season, the majority  Supplier and Supplier) and include Ray-Ban, 
of other components fitted on our cars are adjusted  Kaspersky lab, UPS, Lenovo, Weichai, Mahle, 
from race to race depending on the characteristics  Hublot, AMD, OMR and Alfa Romeo among 
of the circuits. others. Visibility and placement of a sponsor’s 
28 Sustainability Report 2019