CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
| Our Business | 
logo reflects the level of sponsorship fees.  The Mugello Circuit
Historically, our sponsors have sought advertising 
opportunities on the chassis of our cars, on  We acquired the international Mugello circuit in 
clothes worn by our team members and drivers,  Scarperia, near Florence, in 1988. We have renovated 
and in the right to associate their brand to Ferrari  its buildings, 5.2 km race track and other testing and 
in their marketing activities and communications. racing facilities, making Mugello what we believe to 
be one of the world’s finest circuits of its type, with 
We use the platform provided by Formula 1 for a  FIA Grade 1 and FIM Grade A certifications, the 
number of associated marketing initiatives, such  highest level of homologation for a racetrack.
as the hosting of clients and other key partners 
in Ferrari Formula 1 Club Hospitality to watch  We promote the Mugello circuit to event organizers 
and experience the Grand Prix races with Scuderia  who regularly rent the circuit to host leading car 
Ferrari, and our Formula 1 drivers’ participation in  and motorbike races, including the MotoGP World 
various promotional activities for our road cars. We  Championship since 1992. In 2019, the circuit 
often sell older Formula 1 cars to customers for use  hosted 16 race weekends and 250 days of track 
in amateur racing or collection. activities. Almost 121,000 spectators attended the 
2019 MotoGP World Championship (71,000 on the 
More generally, Formula 1 racing allows us  Sunday), one of the largest audiences ever recorded 
to promote and market our brand and technology  in the 29 years of the Mugello circuit’s history.
to a global audience without resorting to 
traditional advertising activities, therefore  In 2011, the Mugello circuit won its fifth “Best 
preserving the aura of exclusivity around our brand  Grand Prix” award, the highest honor given in 
and limiting the marketing costs that we, as a  the motor sport world to MotoGP organizers. 
company operating in the luxury industry, would  The Mugello circuit is the only track race to have 
otherwise incur. received this award five times.
5.2 km 
race track
Mugello circuit 
Scarperia
Firenze
Sustainability Report 2019 29