CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope Forward-Looking Statements GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
Brand Activities 
Ferrari is one of the world’s leading luxury brands.  A significant portion of our revenues from licensing 
We engage in brand development and protection  activities consists of royalties we receive in connection 
activities through licensing contracts with selected  with Ferrari World, our theme park in Abu Dhabi. 
partners, retail activities through a chain of  Ferrari World opened on Yas Island, on the North 
franchised or directly managed stores, licensed theme  East side of Abu Dhabi’s mainland, in 2010. Ferrari 
parks and the development of a line of apparel and  World’s iconic sleek red roof is directly inspired by 
accessories sold exclusively in our monobrand stores  the classic double curve side profile of the Ferrari GT 
and on our website www.store.ferrari.com. body, spanning 200,000 square meters and carrying 
the largest Ferrari logo ever created. Ferrari World 
Ferrari owns and manages two museums, one in  Abu Dhabi offers an all-around Ferrari experience to 
Maranello and one in Modena, which attracted  children and adults alike.
more than 600,000 visitors in 2019.
Our second theme park, Ferrari Land Portaventura, 
opened in April 2017 near Barcelona, and includes 
Licensing, Entertainment  
Red Force, the tallest and fastest roller-coaster in 
and Theme Parks Europe. In the long-term we aim to open one theme 
park in each of the main geographic areas where we 
We enter into license agreements with a number  operate, including North America and Asia.
of licensees for the design, development and 
production of Ferrari branded products.
Retail
We carefully select our licensees through a rigorous 
process and we contractually seek to ensure that 
our brand and intellectual property are protected  Through our network of stores (franchised or directly 
and that the products which will eventually bear  managed), we offer a wide range of Scuderia Ferrari 
our brand are of adequate quality, appearance  branded products, including a line of apparel and 
and market positioning. Ferrari branded products  accessories exclusively sold in our stores and on our 
include consumer electronics, sportswear, toys,  website. All products sold in our stores and on our 
video games, watches and other accessories, as well  website are either directly sourced from our selected 
as theme parks. network of suppliers or manufactured by our licensees.
In 2019, we commenced our participation in  As at December 31, 2019, there were a total of 44 
eSports (i.e., electronic sports) with the launch of  retail Ferrari stores, including those in Maranello, 
an entertainment platform and the selection of  Milan, Rome, Macau, Miami, Los Angeles, 
a team which took part in two of the main world  Johannesburg, Dubai and Abu Dhabi, of which 24 
championships: F1 Pro Series 2019 and SRO  are franchised stores (including 15 Ferrari Store 
E-Sport GT Series, which our team won. Junior) and 20 stores owned and operated by us.
30 Sustainability Report 2019