CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
| Our Business | 
Intellectual Property 
We own a number of registered designs and utility  The names of our sports, GT, special series and 
patents. We expect the number to grow as we  Icona car models and Formula 1 single-seater 
continue to pursue technological innovations and  models are also registered as trademarks (and 
to develop our design and brand activities. logotypes) and we also register their domain names 
and the cars’ design.
We file patent applications in Europe, and around 
the world (including in the United States) to  The protection of intellectual property is also 
protect technology and improvements considered  increasingly important in connection with our 
important to our business. No single patent is  design and brand activities. Therefore, we adopt 
material to our business as a whole. and follow internal processes and procedures to 
ensure both that all necessary protection is given 
We also own a number of registered trademarks,  to our intellectual property rights and that no 
designs and patents, including approximately 493  third party rights are infringed by us. In addition, 
trademarks (word or figurative), registered in several  we are particularly active in seeking to limit any 
countries and across a number classes. In particular,  counterfeiting activities regarding our Ferrari branded 
we ensure that the maximum level of protection  products around the world. To reach this goal we 
is given to the following iconic trademarks, for  closely monitor trademark applications and domain 
which we own approximately 4,000 applications/ names worldwide, actively interact with national and 
registrations in approximately 140 countries, in  local authorities and customs and avail ourselves of a 
most of the main classes for goods and services. network of experienced outside counsels.
Sustainability Report 2019 33