CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
/ Stakeholder engagement
We rely on a significant number of suppliers  In 2019, we carried out various stakeholder 
who play an important part in the success of the  engagement activities in order to enhance the 
Group: for the sourcing of certain key components  voice of our stakeholders. We engaged with our 
with high technological specifications, we have  employees by explaining what sustainability stands 
developed strong synergistic relationships with  for within Ferrari while taking into consideration 
some of our suppliers, which are considered “key  their priorities. We also engaged with our top 
strategic innovation partners”.  investors to better understand what they consider 
to be the main ESG drivers for Ferrari, as well as 
We continue to invest heavily to minimize our  participating in a variety of ESG questionnaires such 
environmental impact. Our vehicles must comply  as the SAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment 
with extensive regional, national and local laws  (CSA) and the CDP Climate Change questionnaire. 
and regulations, as well as industry self-regulations  All these activities allowed us to further strengthen 
(including those that regulate vehicle safety). our materiality analysis.
We are a dual-listed Company, therefore, the  Considering the rising environmental and social 
financial discipline, enhanced through the  changes, these engagement activities are an 
relationship with shareholders and investors,  important part of the sustainability approach that 
further supports the Company in pursuing its  helps us identifying our sustainability risks and 
business targets. opportunities, as well as supporting management in 
achieving the Company’s objectives.
Furthermore, we collaborate with universities and high 
schools to provide scholarships to talented students.
40 Sustainability Report 2019