CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
| Proactively fostering best practice governance | 
DIRECTORS BY AGE GROUP AND GENDER
Directors 31.12.2019
30-50 >50 Total Total %
Male 2 4 6 60%
Female 2 2 4 40%
Total  4 6 10 100%
For more information regarding our Board of Directors and Committees, please refer to the “Corporate 
Governance” paragraph of 2019 Annual Report.
Our Governance and Sustainability Committee
The Governance and Sustainability Committee is  The Governance and Sustainability Committee 
responsible for, among other things, assisting and  currently consists of Mr. John Elkann (Chairperson), 
advising the Board of Directors, and acting under  Ms. Giuseppina Capaldo and Mr. Eddy Cue. Effective 
authority delegated by the Board of Directors, with  as of July 24, 2019 Mr. Eddy Cue was appointed 
respect to:  member of the Governance & Sustainability 
(i)  the identification of the criteria, professional  Committee instead of Mr. Sergio Duca.
and personal qualifications for candidates to 
serve as Directors,  The Governance and Sustainability Committee is 
elected by the Board of Directors and is comprised 
(ii)  periodic assessment of the size and composition 
of at least three Directors. More than half of the 
of the Board of Directors, 
members shall be independent under the Dutch 
(iii) periodic assessment of the functioning of 
Corporate Governance Code, and at most one of the 
individual Directors and reporting on this to the 
members may be an executive Director.
Board of Directors, 
(iv) proposals for appointment of executive and  In 2019 the Governance and Sustainability Committee 
non-executive Directors,  met once with 100 percent attendance of its members 
(v) supervision of the selection criteria and  at such meeting. The Committee reviewed the Board 
appointment procedure for senior management,  of Directors’ and Committee’s assessments, the 
Sustainability achievement and objectives, and the 
(vi) monitoring and evaluating reports on the 
recommendations for Directors’ election.
Group’s sustainable development policies and 
practices, management standards, strategy, 
performance and governance globally, and 
(vii) reviewing, assessing and making 
recommendations as to strategic guidelines for 
sustainability-related issues, and reviewing the 
annual Sustainability Report.
Sustainability Report 2019 45