CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
Integrity of Business Conduct our Assets and Information and, (iv) Protecting our 
Workforce. These Practices, which further explain the 
The foundation of Ferrari’s governance model is  Code of Conduct, can be consulted by all employees 
the Code of Conduct that reflects our commitment  on the Company intranet.
to a culture dedicated to integrity, responsibility 
and ethical behavior. Ferrari endorses the United  Internal Audit investigates possible violations of the 
Nations (“UN”) Declaration on Human Rights,  Code of Conduct during standard periodic audits 
the International Labor Organization (“ILO”)  and through specific Business Ethics Compliance 
Conventions and the Organization for Economic  (BEC) audits. In 2019, BEC surveys were carried 
Co-Operation and Development (“OECD”)  out to measure employees’ awareness on: Code 
Guidelines for Multinational Companies.  of Conduct, Whistleblowing Procedure, Gift and 
Accordingly, the Code of Conduct is intended to be  Entertainment Expenses Management. In light of 
consistent with such guidelines and aims to ensure  the results, dedicated training activities have been 
that all members of the Ferrari Group workforce  implemented accordingly.
act with the highest level of integrity, comply with 
applicable laws, and build a better future for our  The Company’s governance model includes policies 
Company and the communities in which we do  for respecting Human Rights, which prohibit child 
business. The complete Code of Conduct can be  and forced labor and pay attention to safe working 
found on our website at  environment for our employees. 
http://corporate.ferrari.com/en/governance/code-conduct.
  
Ferrari’s integrity system comprises the following 
Anti-Bribery and Corruption
primary elements:
• P rinciples that capture the Company’s 
commitment to important values in business and  Ferrari’s Code of Conduct includes, among others, 
personal conduct;  rules related to anti-bribery, anti-corruption, 
competitive behavior and conflicts of interest. Ferrari 
• P ractices that are the basic rules that must guide 
is committed to the highest standards of integrity, 
our daily behaviors required to achieve our 
honesty and fairness in all internal and external 
overarching Principles;
affairs and will not tolerate any kind of bribery. 
•  Procedures that further articulate the Company’s 
The laws of virtually all countries in which Ferrari 
specific operational approach to achieving 
operates prohibit bribery. Ferrari’s policy is that 
compliance and that may have specific 
no one - director, officer, or other employee, agent 
applications limited to certain geographical 
or representative - shall, directly or indirectly, give, 
regions and/or businesses as appropriate.
offer, request, promise, authorize, solicit or accept 
Our Code of Conduct is approved by the board of  bribes or any other perquisite (including gift or 
directors of Ferrari N.V. and applies to all board  gratuities with the exception of commercial items 
members and officers, as well as full-time and part- universally accepted in an international context of 
time employees of the Ferrari Group.  modest economic value, permitted by applicable 
laws and in compliance with the Code of Conduct 
The Code of Conduct also applies to all temporary,  and all applicable practices and procedures) in 
contract and all other individuals and companies  connection with their work for Ferrari at any time 
that act on behalf of the Ferrari Group. or for any reason. A violation of anti-bribery and 
anti-corruption laws is a serious offense for both 
The Code of Conduct is completed with the  companies and individuals, which can result 
following Ferrari Practices: (i) Conducting Business,  in significant fines, reputational damage and 
(ii) Interacting with External Parties, (iii) Managing  imprisonment of individuals.
46 Sustainability Report 2019