CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
| Proactively fostering best practice governance | 
Whistleblowing the allegations received. The results and potential 
disciplinary actions are then reported based on the 
Violations of the Code of Conduct are determined  necessary escalation process (the relevant internal 
through periodic activities carried out by our  functions are notified of the violations).
Internal Audit and Compliance Departments, 
through the analysis of the reports received in  On November 15, 2017, Italian law for whistleblowing, 
accordance with the Ethics Helpline Management  which contains provisions for the protection of 
Procedures and through checks which form part of  reporters of crimes or irregularities that have 
the standard operating procedures. come to light in the context of a public or private 
employment relationship, was definitively adopted 
The Ethics Helpline is a dedicated channel that  (Law n. 179/2017). The law concerns the protection 
allows employees, suppliers, dealers, consumers  of workers, public or private, who report or denounce 
and other stakeholders to request advice about the  crimes or other illegal conduct which they have come 
application of the Code of Conduct, and to report  to know about in the context of their employment 
any concerns about alleged situations, events,  relationship. Our whistleblowing procedures are in line 
or actions that they believe may be inconsistent  with the provisions of Law n.179/2017.
with the Code of Conduct. Stakeholders can also 
report alleged violations anonymously if permitted  The violations of the Code of Conduct have been 
by local law. The Ethics Helpline can be accessed  categorized according to the Principles of the 
either by phone or by web intake (with multiple  Code of Conduct. Accordingly, Managing Our 
languages available) and is an essential element of  Assets and Information includes: Communicating 
the management process, in accordance with the  Effectively, Protecting Ferrari Assets and 
Code of Conduct, in relation to raised concerns. It  Maintaining Appropriate Records. The category 
is managed by an independent provider, available  Interacting with External Parties comprises 
24 hours a day, seven days a week. Avoiding Conflicts of Interest and Supporting 
Our Communities. Conducting Business covers 
Furthermore, Ferrari employees may also seek advice  Sustainably Purchasing Goods or Services, 
concerning the application and interpretation of  Transacting Business Legally and Engaging in 
the Code of Conduct by contacting their immediate  Sustainable Practices. Finally, Protecting Our 
supervisor, Human Resources representatives or the  Workforce includes behaviors related 
Legal and Compliance Departments. to Maintaining a Fair and Secure Workplace, 
and Ensuring Health and Safety. For all Code of 
Internal Audit, with the support of the Legal  Conduct violations, the disciplinary measures 
Department, Human Resources and other  taken are commensurate with the seriousness of 
business functions possibly involved, assesses all  the case and comply with local legislation.
WHISTLEBLOWING REPORTING AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019
Category Reports received  Reports closed  Reports in which  
in 2019 in 2019* a violation was confirmed
Conducting business 1 1 1
Interacting with external parties 4 4 1
Managing our assets and information - 2 -
Protecting our workforce 16 9 5
Total 21 16 7
* Including 2 WB received in 2018.
Periodic reporting is provided to the CEO as well as to the Audit Committee.
Sustainability Report 2019 47