CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
/ Responsible Supply Chain
Ferrari encourages the adoption and sharing of  high-level know-how to develop exclusive best-in-
sustainable practices among our business partners,  class solutions for Ferrari. We currently rely on 14 
suppliers and dealers. All suppliers must respect the  key strategic innovation partners, including for the 
Ferrari Code of Conduct, which includes the set of  supply of transmissions and brakes. We have also 
values recognized, adhered to and promoted by our  developed strong relationships with other industrial 
Company. The Code of Conduct was updated to  partners for bodyworks and chassis manufacturing 
include specific guidelines relating to the respect of  and for powertrain and transmissions, among 
human rights and conflicts of interest. The Group  other things. Pursuant to our make-or-buy strategy, 
made its best effort to ensure that the Code of  we generally retain production in-house whenever 
Conduct is regarded as a best practice of business  we have an interest in preserving or developing 
conduct and followed by third parties, including  technological know-how or when we believe 
long lasting relationships and business partners  that outsourcing would impair the efficiency and 
such as suppliers, dealers, advisors and agents.  flexibility of our production process. Therefore, 
The selection of suppliers is based not only on the  we continue to invest in the skills and processes 
quality and competitiveness of their products and  required for low-volume production of components 
services, but also their adherence to social, ethical  that we believe improve product quality.
and environmental principles. 
Products sold through Ferrari’s wholesale network, 
Relevant suppliers are assessed through a risk  stores (franchised or directly managed) and on our 
analysis that aims at identifying critical suppliers,  website are either developed directly or produced 
thanks to a mix of a financial-economical (the first  through licensing agreements.
step of the supplier assessment is always the financial 
stability) and industrial assessments. Their growth 
capability is analyzed to identify where we need to 
Conflict minerals
support the development of our business partners to 
help them meet the requests of the Group. 
Ferrari supports the goal of preventing the 
The Supplier Risk Committee (SRC) meets on a  exploitation of minerals violating human rights. 
quarterly basis and, using the data provided by the  As part of Ferrari’s commitment to respect and 
Supplier Risk Manager, is responsible for: ensuring  promote human rights and the sustainability of its 
that operational procedures used by Purchasing  operations, Ferrari selects suppliers based not only 
Department to qualify new vendors are aligned to  on the quality and competitiveness of their products 
Group Policy and Guidelines; reviewing the situation  and services, but also on their adherence to social, 
of critical suppliers and approving current action  ethical and environmental principles, as outlined 
plan and mitigating actions, requesting further  in Ferrari’s Code of Conduct. Many geopolitical 
action plans to mitigate risks that could come from  experts believe that conflicts may increasingly arise 
supply relationships or existing critical situations  over access to raw materials. For this reason, Ferrari 
(e.g. bank guarantees in case of advances to the  places a high priority on responsible sourcing and 
supplier for fixed costs such as R&D and tooling);  the integrity of its suppliers.
approving any exceptions, if needed. The approval 
of the SRC is binding with regard to supplier  The cars we produce contain various metals, which 
evaluation in case of High Risk suppliers profile. may include tantalum, tin, tungsten and/or gold 
(collectively, “3TG” or “Conflict Minerals”).
We have established long lasting relationships with 
suppliers that produce key components for our  Ferrari has developed strategies addressing Section 
cars, especially those focusing on innovation. This  1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as subsequent 
synergetic relationship aims at putting together  rules promulgated by the U.S. Securities and 
50 Sustainability Report 2019