CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
| Proactively fostering best practice governance | 
Exchange Commission (collectively, the “Conflict  groups anywhere in the world; and (2) enabling 
Mineral Rules”), requiring companies to determine  legitimate minerals from conflict and high risk 
whether 3TG in their supply chain originated  regions to enter Ferrari’s global supply chain, 
from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and  thereby supporting the economies and the local 
its adjoining countries (collectively, the “Covered  communities that depend on the export of such 
Countries”), and whether the procurement of  minerals. We have strengthened our engagement 
those minerals supported the armed conflict in  with suppliers, communicating our position on 
this region. Due to the complexity of our supply  responsible sourcing and our expectations in terms 
chain, we are dependent upon suppliers to provide  of responsible supply chains. In addition, we have 
the information necessary to correctly identify  established a control and transparency system 
the smelters and refiners that produce the 3TG  over our 3TG supply chain. Such system includes 
contained in our products and take appropriate  surveying our suppliers about the 3TG in their 
action to determine that these smelters and refiners  supply chain.
source responsibly.
Among other things, we:
We strive to ensure that legitimate business  •  expect our suppliers to assure that the 3TG in 
activities and the livelihoods of individuals in  their products do not directly or indirectly finance 
Covered Countries are not harmed by our efforts.  or benefit armed groups in the Covered Countries; 
To this end, we promote responsible sourcing in  and
Covered Countries.
•  require all of our 3TG suppliers to conduct the 
necessary due diligence and provide us with 
In accordance with the Organization for Economic 
adequate information on the country of origin 
Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidance, 
and source of the materials used in the products 
we have established an internal management 
they supply to us.
system in relation to the supply of Conflict 
Minerals, with the objective, inter alia, of (1)  In 2018, 93% of Ferrari’s direct suppliers by 
minimizing the trade in Conflict Minerals that  purchased value submitted responses to our survey. 
directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed  We are strongly committed to increase the coverage 
of our analysis and the response rate through 
targeted actions.
Sustainability Report 2019 51