CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
Research, Innovation and Technology
Innovation is in our DNA and we will continue pushing boundaries to respond to 
customers’ desires, always setting new standards in the “Ferrari way”.
Innovation drives products and processes, which  Our focus on excellence requires a strong 
represents one of our key differentiating factors.  collaboration with our suppliers, and a handful 
This is why we are focused on developing new  of them are considered “key strategic innovation 
technologies and distinctive designs.  partners”. Collaborations with leading universities are 
also in place to foster the development of new ideas.
Participation in the Formula 1 World Championship 
with Scuderia Ferrari is an important source of  Technological breakthroughs are further enhanced 
technological innovation, which is then transferred  through design. In 2010, the Ferrari Design Center 
or adapted into our road cars, such as the hybrid  was established as a best-in-class in-house design 
configuration of the SF90 Stradale. Moreover, our  department to improve control over the design 
development efforts take into account the three  process and to ensure long-term continuity of the 
defining dimensions of Ferrari cars: performance,  Ferrari style. A guiding principle of the Ferrari style 
versatility and comfort, as well as driving emotions.  is that each new model represents a clear departure 
In addition to these internally driven factors,  from prior models and introduces new and 
regulation is key in determining the direction of  distinctive aesthetic elements, delivering constant 
technical innovation. innovation within the furrow of tradition. Our 
designers, modelers and engineers work together 
One of our other main focuses is on innovating our  to create car bodies that incorporate the most 
working methods, which involves stimulating the  innovative aerodynamic solutions within the elegant 
creativity of our employees. With this in mind, we  and powerful lines typical of Ferrari cars. 
have implemented programs designed to encourage 
the development of ideas and solutions that will  The Design team has been presented with several 
improve products, methods and the working  design awards such as the “Red Dot: Best of the 
environment. Pole Position Evo, for instance,  Best” award, which was granted for five years in a 
rewards ideas put forward by individual staff  row (2015 – 2019).
members. In 2019, we received around 20,000 
suggestions from employees, more than doubling  We continue to regularly launch new cars with 
from the previous year.  enhanced technological innovations and design 
improvements. Our plan is to launch 15 new models 
In recent years, several of our innovations have  between 2019-2022, 5 of which were unveiled 
been renowned, for instance, by winning the  during 2019, with the purpose of maintaining the 
International Engine of the Year award for four  product portfolio’s leading position and to respond 
years in a row (2016 - 2019). Additionally, in 2018,  quickly to market demand and technological 
Ferrari’s engine was voted the best engine of the  breakthroughs. A clear example of this is the SF90 
past 20 years. Stradale, our first hybrid series-production car.
54 Sustainability Report 2019