CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
Innovation Design Engineering 
development
Innovation drives products and  Design is a fundamental and 
processes, which represents one of  distinctive aspect of our products 
Our development efforts take 
our key differentiating factors. and our brand.
into account the three defining 
dimensions of Ferrari cars: 
Participation in the Formula 1  Our designers, modelers and 
performance; versatility and comfort; 
World Championship with Scuderia  engineers work together to create car 
and driving emotions.  
Ferrari is an important source of  bodies that incorporate innovation 
These three dimensions variably 
technological innovation. and tradition. In 2010 we established 
interact in our sports and GT cars.
the Ferrari Design Centre, our in-
house design department.
Open Innovation  in the research and analysis of technical and 
scientific information and in the development 
Innovation runs within Ferrari and we are well  of research project activities. The aim of CRIT 
aware that partnerships and synergies with external  is to spread collaborative innovation between 
entities of different sectors have to be established  different enterprises and to share different needs 
to face the future challenges of the automotive  and knowledge in order to generate new ideas and 
industry. By getting access to the most advanced  access enabling technologies. 
researches and studies, we aim to develop new 
practical solutions for our industrial processes  A more fertile environment for innovation could 
and technical products. We believe that open  also be created by generating a virtuous circle 
innovation is a proficient tool capable of help us  between big companies and start-ups. Ferrari, with 
crossing the boundaries between different sectors  the help of specialized partners, is scouting start-
and technologies. Below are just a few examples on  ups to develop specific innovation projects that will 
how we lead innovation in our Company. result in the realization of prototypes. 
Ferrari has established partnerships with universities  By working in close contact with key suppliers to 
and research centers to convert the most advanced  foster innovative solutions and by sharing different 
theoretical researches, especially in technology,  expertise, Ferrari is able to overcome several 
engineering and computer science, into practical  challenges in many different fields. An example 
solutions for our industrial processes. Ferrari  of this approach can be found in the partnership 
also collaborates with research centers and  created with suppliers for the realization of a state-
other organizations to find common solutions to  of-the-art 1:1 scale static and dynamic simulator 
technological problems, combining state-of-the-art  that is able to replicate the behavior of Ferrari’s 
expertise from different sectors. vehicles in all the relevant driving conditions. 
The spreading of cross-fertilization and high- Since several added-value ideas are also generated 
end know-how between different companies is  within our Company, we have launched the 
becoming more relevant for the emergence of  pilot project “Internal Open Innovation” with 
innovative ideas. Ferrari is one of the founding  the objective of spreading “innovation pills” to 
members of CRIT, a private company specialized  allow access to everyone’s ideas in all technical 
56 Sustainability Report 2019