CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
| Exceeding expectations | 
fields. The project consists of three main tools,  For the design of our cars we have relied historically 
with a common goal of knowledge sharing  on Italian coachbuilders such as Carrozzeria 
and strategical know-how growth, while also  Touring, Vignale, Scaglietti and Pininfarina. These 
improving the network of opportunities in the  partnerships helped Ferrari in defining its design 
innovation ecosystem. The internal event called  language at the forefront of design advance. 
Smart Technology Trends Roundtable offers  Throughout the years this area of excellence has 
employees the opportunity to take a deep dive  been recognized repeatedly by a long series of 
into new topics through dedicated lectures from  awards being bestowed upon Ferrari road cars.
universities, research or other industry experts, 
therefore creating a conducive environment for  In 2010 we established the Ferrari Design Centre, 
brainstorming new ideas.  our in-house design department, with the objective 
of improving control over the entire design process 
The two editions of 2019 covered stimulating  and ensuring long-term continuity of the Ferrari 
topics that fostered creativity, know-how and the  style. The mission of the Ferrari Design Centre is 
generation of new ideas. The second tool, Smart  to define and evolve the stylistic direction of the 
Technology Trends journal covers a large number  marque, imprinting all new products with a modern 
of innovation topics, analyzing new technologies in  stamp, according to a futuristic, uncompromised 
the automotive, cross or start-up worlds. Finally,  vision. The name and logo “Ferrari Design” denotes 
an Innovation Newsletter with tips and highlights  all concepts and works from Ferrari Design Centre 
is completing the overview on artificial intelligence,  (see “—Intellectual Property”). Ferrari Design handles 
sensors, future mobility, connectivity, human  all aspects of automotive styling for the Ferrari 
machine interface technologies, and many other  road cars product range, encompassing the styling 
topics of interest.  of all bodywork, external components and interior 
trim, applied to series production models for the 
GT and sports car range special editions, limited 
editions, Iconas, one-off models, concept cars 
Design
and some track-only models. Ferrari Design also 
includes a Color & Trim unit which manages the 
Design is a fundamental and distinctive aspect  choice of materials and finishes for both exterior 
of our products and our brand. Our designers,  and interior trim and, in addition, is responsible 
modelers and engineers work together to create  for the Tailor Made program in conjunction with 
car bodies that incorporate the most innovative  the Product Marketing department. Ferrari Design 
aerodynamic solutions in the sleek and powerful  is also involved in the styling and conceptual 
lines typical of our cars. The interiors of our cars  definition of Ferrari branded products produced by 
seek to balance functionality, aesthetics and  our licensees (see “—Brand Activities”). In 2019, we 
comfort. Cockpits are designed to maximize the  created the Advanced Design team, a laboratory 
driving experience, tending towards more sporty  that aims at defining the brand’s design vision, 
or more comfortable, depending on the model.  developing new concepts and formal languages 
The interiors of our vehicles boast elegant and  through so far unexplored methods and tools, and 
sophisticated trims and details that enhance  trying to achieve simplification and formal purity 
the ergonomic layout of all main controls, many  while staying true to the Ferrari DNA which has 
of which are clustered on the steering wheel.  characterized its history.
A guiding principle of our design is that each 
new model represents a clear departure from  In September 2018 we opened a new building for the 
prior models and introduces new and distinctive  Ferrari Design Centre, which is our first facility fully 
aesthetic elements, delivering constant innovation  dedicated to the Ferrari Design. The new building 
within the furrow of tradition. hosts two Ateliers and the Tailor Made department 
Sustainability Report 2019 57