CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
/ Design
to engage clients with Ferrari’s rich personalization  or all wheel drive and, in future, electric-powered 
services. The Ferrari Design Centre entirely designed  driving. Comfort results from the ease of the riding 
our most recent cars, including the Ferrari Roma, the  experience and on board interface. Regulation will 
SF90 Stradale, the F8 Tributo and F8 Spider, the 812  affect development in this area - for example, a 
GTS and the Ferrari Monza SP1 and SP2. prescribed electric range may be required in future 
to access city centers.
Driving emotions is a key differentiator of Ferrari 
Product development
cars. There are three elements to driving emotions: 
sound, perceived acceleration and responsiveness 
Product development and technological  of the car. Sound is an important part of the 
innovation experience and very involving for the driver. 
Perceived acceleration is the driver’s subjective 
Our development efforts take into account the three  impression of the car acceleration beyond the 
defining dimensions of Ferrari cars: performance;  actual 0-100 or 0-200 km/h performance measured 
versatility and comfort; and driving emotions. in the car technical specifications. Responsiveness 
requires that every driver command lead to a direct 
Performance reflects features such as weight,  and controllable reaction of the car.
horsepower, torque, aerodynamic efficiency, 
acceleration, and maximum speed, which all  These three dimensions variably interact in our 
contribute to determine the lap time on track.  sports and GT cars. As we work on the future 
We strive to ensure that every Ferrari is the best  product range, we strive to improve on each of 
performing car in its segment. those dimensions, focusing for sports cars on 
performance and driving emotions, and for GT cars 
Versatility derives from spaciousness, accessibility  on versatility and comfort on board and fun to drive 
and mode of traction, including rear wheel drive  - driving emotions.
SPORTS GRAN TURISMO
Driving 
Emotions
Versatility 
Perfomance & Comfort
58 Sustainability Report 2019