CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
| Exceeding expectations | 
Innovation principles Combustion engines
We believe there are five key guidelines to innovation  We believe internal combustion engines will 
at Ferrari:  remain important in Ferrari’s powertrain mix 
and therefore we continue to invest significantly 
in new combustion engine technologies and the 
1. 2.
development or use of bio-fuels. In 2018 we won 
Focus on the three key  Leveraging on 
the “Engine of the Year” award for the newest 
defining dimensions  Formula 1  
edition of our V8 turbocharged engine mounted 
previously described  know-how
on the 488 Pista.
above
Going forward, Ferrari will have three engine 
3. 4.
families: we will maintain and develop the V12 
 First mover positioning  Customization of 
naturally aspirated engine family, long the pinnacle 
in core areas such  technologies available  
of Ferrari engines; we will implement the next 
powertrain and  on the market  
aerodynamics (such as the turbo  technological step ups for the V8 family; and we 
technology) will develop a completely new V6 family based on a 
specific and innovative architecture.
5.
The industry effort to combine greater power 
Pursuit of synergies  outputs with lower emissions and consumption 
(arising from common 
often leads to a higher turbo lag. Through a 
architectures within our range)
technological breakthrough, Ferrari has engineered 
a turbo engine with turbo engine performance but 
with the response of a naturally aspirated engine. 
In addition to these internally driven factors,  For example, the specific power output of the 488 
regulation is key in determining the direction of  Pista was increased to 184 horsepower without 
innovation. meaningful turbo lag.
In the future, we intend to use hybrid and electric 
technology, as well as Formula 1 technology, to 
increase specific power output without turbo lag.
 
We are deploying considerable resources for the 
development of hybrid and electric powertrains, 
which will be mounted on an increasingly larger 
proportion of our car models; this is intended to 
improve performance and driving experience while 
also satisfying customer preferences and regulatory 
requirements regarding emissions. With the SF90 
Stradale we developed the first series production 
car in our range with Plug-in-Hybrid Electric Vehicle 
(PHEV) technology.
Best Engine
of the Year 2019
Sustainability Report 2019 59