CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
/ Product development
Architecture
In addition to engines, the other principal technical area we are focusing on is the architecture. Our 
architecture covers all principal technical specifications of future Ferrari models. We expect that innovation 
requirements will arise principally from: the evolution of engine families; the level of hybridization and 
electrification; modes of traction; the number of seats up to a real four-seater; and the body style, which 
will vary much more significantly than in the past in light of the introduction of the Purosangue.
We expect that our core architectures will be the rear-mid-engine architecture and the front-mid-engine 
architecture, each comprising several variants.
Product Specification Architecture
Engine  V12 vs. V8 vs. V6
Hybridization  Yes vs. No
Traction  2WD vs. 4WD NEW  Power unit Gearbox
FERRARI
Rear-mid-engine
PRODUCT
Seating  2 vs. 2+ vs. 2+2 vs. 4 RANGE
Body style  Coupè vs. Spider vs. “Purosangue”
Clearance  Low vs. High Power unit Gearbox
Front-mid-engine
Rear-mid-engine architecture Front-mid-engine architecture
The rear-mid-engine architecture is designed  The front-mid-engine architecture, also a transaxle 
to integrate multiple power units with a higher  powertrain concept, is even more flexible than the 
specific power output than the 488 Pista. In this  rear-mid-engine architecture. This architecture is 
architecture, combustion engines can be combined  able to accommodate an all wheel drive powertrain, 
with an electric motor to realize hybridization,  will allow for hybridization, and will have a flexible 
including a battery to enable electric range. In  wheelbase suited to a variety of engines as well 
combination, we have developed a new and highly  as seat configurations including two seaters and 
innovative 8-shift double clutch transmission  four seaters. It will be accessible, spacious and 
gearbox. Hybridization will impact the weight of  comfortable. Key to this architecture will be the new 
engines and therefore we will deploy new lightweight  suspension systems we are developing, with a high 
technologies to compensate this impact. Package  range between comfort and sportiness.
efficiency will also be key to achieve a compact 
car that reduces weight and inertia. In order to 
apply the architecture to different powertrains, the 
wheelbase may vary. The first example of this new 
architecture is the SF90 Stradale.
60 Sustainability Report 2019