CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
Client relations
Our clients are the backbone of our business  Client events
together with our brand and our technology. 
We do not promote our brand or our cars  We organize a number of client events in Maranello 
through general advertising. Our main brand  as well as other locations.
marketing and promotional activities have two 
principal targets. Our factory in Maranello is the core of our client 
engagement strategy and a symbolic hub attracting 
Firstly, we target the general public. Our most  clients and prospects worldwide. Upon invitation, 
significant effort in this respect is centered on our  clients and prospects can visit the factory, witness 
racing activities and the resonance of Scuderia  some of its workings and experience several Ferrari 
Ferrari (see “—Formula 1 Activities”). We also  core values such as heritage, exclusivity and 
engage in other brand-promotional activities,  customization. At the factory, clients also have 
including participation in motor shows and other  the opportunity to configure their cars through 
public events. our personalization and bespoke program (see “—
Ferrari Line-Up Strategic Pillars-Personalization Offer”).
Secondly, we target existing and prospective clients, 
seeking to promote clients’ knowledge of our  Every new model launch is carefully staged 
products, and their enjoyment of our cars both  and selected clients and prospects have 
on road and on track, and to foster long-term  preferential access to the new car. The new model 
relationships with our clients, which is key to our  presentation begins with the release of images 
success. In 2019, more than 70 percent of our new  providing a preliminary view of its design. 
cars were sold to Ferrari owners. Clients are then invited to a preview or world 
premiere. A public model presentation generally 
By purchasing our cars, clients become part of a  follows at motor shows where clients are provided 
select community sharing a primary association  access to the Ferrari stand. Further country and 
with the Ferrari image and we foster this sense  regional events follow before delivery of the first 
of fellowship with a number of initiatives. We  cars to dealers.
strive to maximize the experience of our clients 
throughout their period of interaction with  In May 2019, clients from all over the world were 
Ferrari - from first contact, through purchasing  invited to the world premiere of our first series 
decision process, to waiting-time management  production Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicle (PHEV) 
and ownership. - the SF90 Stradale - with a presentation and gala 
dinner hosted at the Fiorano race circuit.
During the fourth quarter of 2019, we launched 
the MyFerrari App, an app created to enhance our  In September 2019, Ferrari launched “Universo 
clients’ connection to the Ferrari world through  Ferrari” exhibition, the first ever immersive 
the direct distribution of tailored content. This  exhibition dedicated to the world of Ferrari, 
new channel enables clients to directly access  set in a dedicated location overlooking the 
features and services, expanding their relationship  Fiorano Circuit. This new event format hosted 
with both the brand and their preferred official  the premieres of two new Spider models - the 
Ferrari dealer. 812 GTS and F8 Spider, and had over 14,000 
64 Sustainability Report 2019