CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
| Exceeding expectations | 
attendees including clients, prospective clients,  branded presence within established driving events. 
and fans. For example, in the Ferrari Tribute to Mille Miglia and 
the Ferrari Tribute to Targa Florio modern Ferrari cars 
In November 2019, clients were invited to the Stadio  take part in their own dedicated competition before 
dei Marmi in Rome for the world premiere of the  the start of the main racing events.
new Ferrari Roma, an event in the “La Nuova Dolce 
Vita” spirit of the new luxury model. Another exclusive driving experience was initiated 
in October 2019, led by experts of the Ferrari 
Classiche Academy, and aimed at classic car 
enthusiasts and clients interested in learning more 
Driving events
about Ferrari’s Classiche certification program 
and the storied archives at our Officine Classiche 
Driving events serve the dual objective of allowing  restoration department. The initiative also offers 
clients to enjoy the best emotions of driving a  the opportunity to experience on-track driving of 
Ferrari, and to foster client loyalty and repeat  these celebrated models on our own Fiorano  
purchases by creating enhanced opportunities to  race circuit.
experience new Ferrari cars. The Ferrari community 
is a passionate group supported by a wide array of 
experiences tailored to the dreams of modern car 
GT Racing activities
owners, classic car connoisseurs, and racetrack 
enthusiasts.
In addition to several track day activities, organized 
We see nurturing our clients’ passion for driving  by local sales departments and dealers to allow 
as a key asset for our future commercial success,  clients to enjoy their cars on ad-hoc rented tracks, 
particularly in markets where racing traditions are  Ferrari has a central department responsible for 
less pronounced. We offer to our prospective and  professionally organizing races and racing courses, 
existing clients interested in new Ferrari models our  Corse Clienti. The Corse Clienti activities take place 
Esperienza Ferrari program, which consists of driving  on some of the world’s most famous race tracks, 
sessions with a team of highly qualified and skilled  and include both competitive races, such as the 
Ferrari instructors and technicians. In addition we  Ferrari Challenge Championships (Europe, UK, 
also offer to our clients on-track driving courses  North America and the Asia-Pacific series), and 
(Corso Pilota), catering to different levels of skill  non-competitive events, such as with XX Programme 
and experience and teaching essential driving skills  and F1Clienti activities, dedicated to clients who 
for high performance cars. In our newer markets,  own respectively, non-homologated GT laboratory 
such as China, we also offer complimentary driving  cars and F1 single-seaters previously used by the 
courses on-track to any new car buyer. Scuderia Ferrari in the Formula 1 Championship. 
Ferrari Challenge and XX Programme/F1 Clienti 
In addition to on-track racing, we organize various  events are run together in the so-called Ferrari Racing 
on-the-road driving events, both under proprietary  Days, which are open to the public and intended for 
formats (Ferrari Cavalcade, including the Cavalcade  a wider audience, and in 2019 were held in Laguna 
Classiche and the International Edition) and with our own  Seca, Shanghai and Nurburgring.
Sustainability Report 2019 65