CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
/ GT Racing activities
These track activities reach their climax at the Finali  cars to a single importer/dealer. We regularly assess 
Mondiali, an annual gathering of all Ferrari client racing  the composition of our dealer network in order to 
programs under Corse Clienti, which last year took  maintain the highest level of quality. At December 
place from October 24 to 27 at the Mugello Circuit  31, 2019, our network comprised 166 dealers 
to celebrate the winners of the Challenge Series. The  operating 187 points of sale.
new Ferrari 488 Challenge EVO and 488 GT3 EVO 
were unveiled to our sporting customers from all over  We do not presently own dealerships and, while our 
the world, while over the weekend 43,000 spectators  strategy does not contemplate owning dealerships, 
in the stands were treated to the traditional Ferrari  we retain flexibility to adapt to evolving market 
Show, with the 488 GTE celebrating 70 years of Ferrari  requirements over time.
victories at Le Mans, and the F60 celebrating the 90th 
anniversary of Scuderia Ferrari. We believe that our careful and strict selection of the 
dealers that sell our cars is a key factor for promoting 
During the 2019 season, the Competizioni GT  the integrity and success of our brand. Our selection 
department supported both the Ferrari 488 GTE  criteria are based on the candidates’ reputation, 
and the Ferrari GT3 cars that competed in the most  financial stability and proven track records. We 
important international championships. The 488  are also intent on selecting dealers who are able 
GTE, with a team composed of Alessandro Pier  to provide a purchase and after-sales experience 
Guidi, James Calado and Daniel Serra, won the Le  aimed at exceeding our clients’ high expectations. 
Mans 24 Hours competition in the WEC, and the  Furthermore, our dealers are committed to promote 
same team also won the Petit Le Mans competition,  and market our cars in a manner intended to 
the last round of the IMSA series. The 488 GT3,  preserve the Ferrari brand integrity and to ensure the 
gave clear proof of its exceptional competitiveness  highest level of client satisfaction.
and reliability, allowing Ferrari to grow its 
impressive record of victories, with 285 since its  While dealers may hold multiple franchises, we 
debut and 67 titles across various international  enjoy a high degree of prominence and level of 
series. In 2019 the new program, Club Competizioni  representation at each point of sale, where most of 
GT, was successfully launched. The initiative is  the client interface and retail experience is exclusive 
aimed at bringing back to the track the most  to Ferrari. Our network and business development 
beautiful Ferrari GT racing cars of the last 30 years  team works with all dealers to ensure our operating 
and is dedicated to clients who love on-track racing  standards are met. Our rigorous design, layout and 
and wish to unleash their cars’ maximum potential,  corporate identity guidelines guarantee uniformity 
without short, time-constrained testing sessions and  of the Ferrari image and client interface. Through 
outside of competitive race settings. our in-house Ferrari Academy we provide training to 
dealers for sales, after-sales and technical activities. 
This ensures that our dealer network delivers 
a consistent level of market leading standards 
Dealer network
across diverse cultural environments. We train and 
monitor dealers intensively. We collect and observe 
We sell our cars exclusively through a network of  data relating to their profitability and financial 
authorized dealers (with the exception of one- health in order to prevent or mitigate any adverse 
offs and track cars which we sell directly to end  experience for clients arising from a dealer ceasing 
clients). In our larger markets we act as importer  to do business or experiencing financial difficulties. 
either through wholly owned subsidiaries or, in  Our regional representatives visit dealerships 
China, through a subsidiary partly owned by a local  regularly to monitor and measure performance 
partner, and we sell the cars to dealers for resale to  and compliance with our operating standards. We 
end clients. In smaller markets we generally sell the  have the right to terminate dealer relationships 
66 Sustainability Report 2019