CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
| Exceeding expectations | 
in a variety of circumstances, including failure to  without financing, we provide direct or indirect 
meet performance or financial standards, or failure  finance and leasing services to retail clients and to 
to comply with our guidelines. Dealer turnover is  dealers. (See “—Financial Services”).
relatively low, reflecting the strength of the franchise 
and our selection processes, but is sufficient to  The total number of our dealers as well as their 
guarantee an orderly renewal over time and to  geographical distribution tends to closely reflect 
stimulate the network’s health and performance. the development or expected development of sales 
volumes to end clients in our various markets  
We provide a suggested retail price or a maximum  over time. 
retail price for all of our cars, but each dealer is 
free to negotiate different prices with clients and  The chart below sets forth the geographic 
to provide financing. Although many of our clients  distribution of our 187 points of sale at December 
in certain markets purchase our cars from dealers  31, 2019:
FERRARI - MARANELLO
Americas EMEA Mainland China,  Rest of 
Hong Kong, Taiwan APAC
51 POS 90 POS 22 POS 24 POS
U.S.A. North Europe China North East Asia
39 POS 13 POS 18 POS 9 POS
Canada Central Europe Taiwan South East Asia
5 POS 13 POS 3 POS 7 POS
Latin America East West Europe & Africa Hong Kong Australasia
7 POS 35 POS 1 POS 8 POS
South Europe
18 POS
Middle East
11 POS
Our sales are diversified across our dealer network, with the largest dealer representing approximately 2.5 
percent of sales, and our 15 largest dealers representing 22.5 percent of sales.
As part of our supply and demand management, we determine allocations based on various metrics 
including expected developments in the relevant market, the number of cars sold historically by the various 
dealers, current order book of dealers and the average waiting time of the end client in the relevant market. 
Our order reporting system allows us to collect and monitor information regarding end client orders and is 
able to assist us in production planning, allocation and dealer management.
Sustainability Report 2019 67