CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
Parts of our standard warranty terms through the Power 
warranty coverage program up to the 15th year of 
We supply parts for current and older models of  life of the car.
Ferrari to our authorized dealer network. In addition 
to substitution of spare parts during the life of the  After the 7th year of life, a car (if in perfect 
car, sales are driven by clients’ demand for parts to  maintenance condition) can be included in 
customize their cars and maximize performance,  the Main Power warranty coverage program 
particularly after a change in ownership and to  (Maintenance and Power) through to the car’s 15th 
compete in the Ferrari Challenge and other client  year of life. Between the 10th year of life and the 
races. We also supply parts to Ferrari models  Classiche eligibility (20 year old car) Ferrari provides 
currently out of production, with stocks dating back  its customers, in addition to standard maintenance 
to 1995. The stock of parts for even older models is  items, also certain specific maintenance kits (Ferrari 
currently owned and managed by a third party which  Premium) to preserve car performance and safety 
in some cases also manufactures out-of-stock parts  systems. When a car follows the full maintenance 
based on our design. The sale of parts is a profitable  program up to the 20th year of life, it automatically 
component of our product mix and it is expected to  obtains the Ferrari Classiche certification.
benefit from the increase in the number of Ferrari 
cars in circulation. While we do not have any direct involvement in 
pre-owned car sales, we seek to support a healthy 
secondary market in order to promote the value of 
our brand, benefit our clients and facilitate sales of 
After-sales
new cars. Our dealers provide an inspection service 
for clients seeking to sell their car which involves 
Dealers provide after-sales services to clients,  detailed checks on the car and a certification on 
either at facilities adjacent to showrooms, or in  which the client can rely, covering, among other 
stand-alone service points across 230 facilities  things, the authenticity of the car, the conformity 
worldwide. After-sales activities are very important  to original technical specifications, and the state 
for our business to ensure the client’s continued  of repair. Furthermore, we offer owners of classic 
enjoyment of the car and the experience. Therefore,  Ferrari cars maintenance and restoration services 
we enforce a strict quality control on our dealers’  through the 73 “Officina Ferrari Classiche” 
services activities and we provide continued training  workshops, part of our service network.
and support to the dealers’ service personnel. 
This includes our team of “flying doctors,” Ferrari  In addition, owners of our classic cars can seek 
engineers who regularly travel to service centers to  assistance in car and engine restorations at our 
address difficult technical issues for our clients. Ferrari Classiche department in Maranello.
We sell cars together with a scheduled program 
of recommended maintenance services in order to 
Financial services
ensure that these cars are maintained to the highest 
standards to meet our strict requirements for 
performance and safety. We offer retail client financing for the purchase 
of our cars and dealer financing through the 
Our 7 Year Maintenance Program (free of charge for  operations of Ferrari Financial Services (“FFS”).  
customers since 2011 on any new cars) is offered  We offer retail client financing:
to further strengthen customer retention in the  •  directly in the United States through our fully 
official network and has been coupled with the  owned subsidiary Ferrari Financial Services Inc. 
possibility to extend the statutory warranty term  (“FFS Inc”);
68 Sustainability Report 2019