CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
Letter from the Chairman  
and the Chief Executive Officer
Dear Shareholders,
2019 was a highly significant year from a financial  segment. We also unveiled the F8 Tributo, a two-
perspective and our overall strategic positioning.  seater V8 mid-rear-engined berlinetta, in addition 
The strong results delivered reflect the work of a  to its drop-top version, the F8 Spider, and 812 GTS, 
Company pursuing its long term vision focussed  which hails a return exactly 50 years since the last 
on supporting the continued vitality of its brand  series spider sported a front-mounted V12.
through innovation, whilst maintaining an enviable 
competitive edge. The presentation of the two spiders was the 
highlight of Universo Ferrari, the first event 
The Ferrari Group either met or exceeded all of its  dedicated exclusively to Ferrari in its hometown. 
financial targets for the year. As a result, we are  Held in September 2019 this exhibition opened its 
confident that the 2022 industrial plan will be  doors to over 14,000 customers, prospects and 
successfully completed. We delivered 10,131 cars, a  Ferrari enthusiasts, who had a unique chance to 
9.5% increase on the previous year. The increase of  experience the multifaceted nature of our marque.
our industrial free cash flow from Euro 375 million 
in 2018 to Euro 675 million was also a source of  We now have the most complete range in our history 
particular satisfaction. and are continuing to garner international plaudits. 
Our V8 turbo engine has been named “International 
We presented five new models this year, a record  Engine of the Year” for the fourth consecutive 
for Maranello, that ensures we are able to satisfy  occasion, whilst the styling of the Ferrari Monza SP1 
the varied requirements of our existing and new  secured us our fifth consecutive “Red Dot: Best of 
clients. Our first production hybrid model, the  the Best” award. Ferrari has also been awarded the 
SF90 Stradale, opened a new chapter in our history,  title of the world’s strongest brand for the second 
whilst the Ferrari Roma is a coupé that effortlessly  consecutive year by Brand Finance.
translates the elegance of the Ferrari Grand Touring 
cars of the 1950s and 60s into very modern styling,  The same exclusive range approach is also applied to 
allowing us to tap into the needs of a new client  our brand diversification strategy, which has led to the 
6 Sustainability Report 2019