CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
Customer Satisfaction
We are devoted to the highest level of customer  •  Third stage: a few months following the launch, 
satisfaction. We have a structured process to  a third survey named New Car Buyer Satisfaction 
assess the overall customer satisfaction on  (“NCBS”) is sent by email to customers. The 
product, service provided, events organized by  NCBS is a more complete, in depth and detailed 
us and the overall customer experience with the  assessment on the car and is composed of more 
car. Specific KPIs are constantly monitored and  than 100 online questions aimed at gathering a 
analyzed by the Marketing Intelligence department.  thorough feedback of the vehicle. 
The KPIs are measured through bespoke surveys for 
each car launch and collected for every new model,  Service satisfaction is evaluated through two 
from range vehicles to special and limited editions.  different indices: Customer Satisfaction Index 
A similar approach is adopted for evaluating the  (“CSI”) and Ferrari Relationship Index (“FRI”).  
quality of service and satisfaction of our events. The purpose of both indices is to evaluate 
customer satisfaction in respect of sale and after-
sale service. CSI focuses more on the latest service 
>70% 41%
      offered by the dealer, while FRI is designed for 
new cars sold  customers owning  gauging the long-term relationship established 
to Ferrari owners more than one Ferrari between clients and Ferrari. All results are then 
collated and analyzed through a statistical model 
at our headquarters.
The assessment process can involve proactively 
submitting online questionnaires and conducting  The results of the product and service satisfaction 
telephone interviews with a sample of customers, or  analyses are used to outline any necessary action 
the customers directly reaching out to Ferrari.  plans for current models and, additionally, to 
identify potential features to be added to the next 
Product satisfaction is evaluated through three  generation of vehicles. Recent surveys show that 
different questionnaires in different time frames,  customer satisfaction for Ferrari products and 
which enable Ferrari to collate customer comments  services has constantly stayed at a very high level.
and feedback:
•  Early stage: at the commercial launch of a new  Starting from 2017, to improve the main events (such 
Ferrari model, customer/prospect satisfaction is  as Cavalcade, Universo Ferrari, World Premiere, 
monitored with Demo Test Drives of the new car  etc) organized by Ferrari’s headquarters, the level of 
at dealer showroom (still not purchased).  customer satisfaction has also been evaluated. All 
the results are collated and shared with Operative 
•  Second stage: after about 3-4 weeks of 
Marketing. In addition, a similar approach has been 
ownership, the first customers of the new model 
adopted for Ferrari Driving Courses worldwide (US, 
receive a survey, “Report200”, to gather their first 
Europe, Mainland China). In this case, the results 
impressions of the recently purchased car. A brief 
are collated and shared with the Corse Clienti 
questionnaire, which is managed by the Ferrari 
department and Hub representatives. 
Customer Care, is conducted by phone with the 
initial customers and ends after the first 200 
replies have been collated.
70 Sustainability Report 2019