CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
Privacy and data protection Data Protection Officer “DPO” and - where 
advisable - privacy impact assessments before 
Customer personal data and information is one of  processing personal data.
Ferrari’s cornerstones and a key component of our 
competitive advantage.  Within this context, we have adopted a progressive 
approach to ensure compliance with data 
We care about processing personal data in a safe  protection and privacy law requirements, such as 
and transparent manner, as it is a fundamental part  the implementation of ICT and security systems 
of our accountability towards our customers. We  (e.g. system collecting consents and privacy notices, 
strive for safeguarding our network against security  back-end systems managing direct personal data 
risks and incidents, preventing cyberattacks in order  etc.), the enhancement of internal policies and 
to guarantee the security and confidentiality of our  procedures (e.g. data breach policy, data retention 
Customers’ information. policy etc.), the guarantee of an effective and 
prompt response to requests from data subjects, 
We act in accordance with the current legislative  the update of privacy notices, drafting of operating 
framework that governs the processing of our  instructions for authorized persons within the 
personal data at global scale, including but not  Company as well as the designation of internal 
limited to the General Data Protection Regulation  privacy referents within Company departments. 
“GDPR” (EU Regulation no. 2016/679). 
Regular training sessions, aimed at raising the 
Data protection law requires, among others,  awareness on the data privacy regulations and 
the application of increased transparency  requirements, are organized and addressed to 
obligations, the introduction of common records  those employees involved in the processing of 
of processing activities, the appointment of a  personal data. 
72 Sustainability Report 2019