CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
| Exceeding expectations | 
Vehicle Safety
Vehicle safety is among our top priorities and Ferrari  preventing or mitigating crash occurrences. We 
cars are always designed and manufactured with  are currently assessing the implementation of the 
the safety of our customers and other road users in  most recent trends and developments in terms of 
mind. Given the nature of our cars, the electronic  simplifying and easing the interaction between the 
equipment is developed with an integrated approach,  car and the driver to avoid any distraction. In 2019, 
ensuring the best balance between safety, control  we extended ADAS to our entire fleet, after the initial 
and best-in-class performance, to further enhance  introduction on the GTC4Lusso in 2018.
the Ferrari driving emotions.
In 2019, we launched the SF90 Stradale, the first 
All of our range models are subject to a series of tests  hybrid series-production car in Ferrari’s history. 
to obtain approval from the relevant authorities.  This new model encapsulates the most advanced 
Moreover, we start assessing all our new models  technologies developed in Maranello, including 
at an early stage of planning and design to identify  the HMI, which with its track derived “eyes on the 
areas of improvement. street, hands on the steering wheel” philosophy 
takes on a truly central role. The result is an HMI 
To guarantee the highest level of passenger safety, we  (Human-Machine Interface) that is a complete 
develop both passive and active safety systems. departure from previous models. The “hands-on-
the--steering-wheel” philosophy has consistently 
Passive safety requirements are the initial guidelines  driven the development of the human-machine 
assigned to the engineers in order to define the  interface in every Ferrari F1 car and its subsequent 
design of every component, from car framework to  gradual transfer to its road-going sports cars. The 
all the retain components (airbags, seat belts, etc.).  SF90 Stradale’s steering wheel completes that 
Moreover, specific devices are installed in racing  transfer process from the racing competition and 
cars to obtain FIA (Federation International de  also ushers in a new era by introducing a series of 
l’Automobile) approval. touch commands that allow the driver to control 
virtually every aspect of the car without ever taking 
With the aim of solving issues beforehand and  their hands off the wheel. The Head Up Display 
reducing the environmental impact of these activities,  is another part of the innovative HMI and allows 
all tests are reproduced in a state-of-the-art virtual  various data to be projected onto the windshield 
environment before conducting them with real cars.  within the driver’s field of vision so that their 
attention is not distracted from driving. 
Regarding Active safety, we believe that the future 
developments of vehicle safety will be linked to  Regarding further aspects of vehicle safety, please 
advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) and  refer to 2019 Ferrari Annual Report (See “Overview of 
human-machine interface (HMI), capable of  Our Business - Regulatory Matters – Vehicle safety”). 
Sustainability Report 2019 73