CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
| Being the employer of choice | 
Working environment
We know that the best individual and team performance is only achieved if employees 
feel they are in the right environment. We also believe that the quality of our products 
cannot be separated from the lives of the people working in Ferrari.
This is why the working environment and wellbeing  As part of the “Formula Benessere” benefits, 
of the Company’s employees are among our most  preventative healthcare is provided to all 
important priorities, representing the key focus of  employees and their children. Medical specialists 
our “Formula Uomo” initiatives. are available for consultation in areas such 
as ophthalmic, cardiology, osteopathy and 
Our complex in Maranello, a state-of-the-art  dermatology, among others. A free annual 
work environment, was designed to reinforce  check-up focusing on general health and fitness 
the synergistic relationship between work and  is also provided to managers and children of 
results. With the needs of our employees firmly in  all employees aged 5 to 15. In 2019, “Formula 
mind, our manufacturing facilities are specifically  Benessere Donna”, a preventative healthcare 
created to combine carefully designed lighting  program specifically designed for women’s health, 
systems, projected to maximize the amount of  was launched. All female employees are offered 
natural light, and several external and internal  the opportunity of undergoing a free gynecological 
green areas. Thermal comfort throughout the  examination as well as mammary and thyroid 
factory is also a crucial requirement; since 2013,  gland ultrasound scans. 
the in-plant foundry is equipped with a cooling 
1,750 700
system that makes it air-conditioned and climate  ˜
 employees and   children
controlled. Special measures aimed at reducing the  benefitted from “Formula Benessere” service in 2019
environmental impact and noise through the use 
of advanced technologies are also in place. As an  Our attention to the promotion of health and safety 
example, the design of our Machining Department  among our employees goes beyond what is required 
is aimed at providing the workplace with maximum  by law, and to this effect, special workshops are 
acoustic comfort thanks to noise reduction  organized for employees to raise awareness on the 
solutions (source and reverberation).  importance of these topics.
To promote an active lifestyle among our employees,  To foster a sense of belonging among employees 
we rely on our “Formula Benessere” program, aimed  and their families and to offer concrete support 
at providing preventative healthcare to employees  to working parents with the demanding duties of 
and their children. A gym is available for all the  childcare during school holidays, we have launched 
employees at Maranello and employees at the  the program “Formula Estate Junior”. This initiative 
Modena plant have free membership in one of the  consist of a free day camp for employees’children 
city gyms. Initially provided to the F1 racing team  aged 3 to 13, with various programs including sports, 
as part of their training program for the Grand Prix  outdoor activities, excursions and workshops. The 
activities, the initiative was subsequently rolled out  program, at its 10th edition, has a duration of 11 
to all employees. weeks (with a shorter 4-day version taking place 
Sustainability Report 2019 77