CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
/ Working environment
during Easter holidays) and allows children to enjoy  We offer additional benefits to our employees 
an exciting experience with a didactic purpose: each  in five different areas - food, free time, wellness, 
edition of the “Formula Estate Junior” camp has an  travel and personal services - including 
educational theme developed by 119 professional  personalized loans at competitive rates at the 
educators and is organized in collaboration with the  internal branch of a local bank, special rates for 
local community. the employees’ housing needs and discounts at the 
Ferrari Museums, Ferrari Stores and at the Ferrari 
860
company outlet. 
Over   children attended  360
the summer day camp program and over   
children attended the Easter camp  To foster the sense of belonging, the Company 
organizes multiple events. In September 2019, 
Education is also the focus of a series of different  the Ferrari Family Day, the open day dedicated to 
initiatives that provide scholarships to talented  Ferrari employees and their families, was attended 
junior high, high school and university students.  by 24,000 people. During the same month, the first 
In 2019, our scholarship program, named after  edition of the Universo Ferrari event in Maranello 
our founder “Enzo Ferrari”, was awarded to  welcomed employees during two dedicated evenings. 
56 talented students. The awards were handed  More than 2,600 people among employees and their 
by our Chairman during an event that saw the  guests attended the Ferrari Challenge championship 
participation of all Ferrari Senior Managers.  event Finali Mondiali at the Mugello Circuit. 
Moreover, in 2019 we reimbursed almost 600  Approximately 4,400 people among employees and 
employees for the cost of their children’s textbooks  their family members attended the 2019 edition of 
(reimbursement is offered to all employees’  “Natale Bimbi” our Christmas event. 
children until high school and, in certain cases, 
we reimburse the cost of school textbooks for  All these benefits are provided to all of our 
employees in continued education). employees. 
78 Sustainability Report 2019