CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
| Letter from the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer | 
termination of numerous licensing agreements and the  comprehensive carbon footprint to enable us to 
exit from merchandise categories that do not reflect  set ambitious targets to become ultimately carbon 
the Company’s inherent values. neutral over the longer term. In the course of the 
year, we also further invested in one of our most 
We ended the Formula 1 World Championship in  important assets, our people, by making 12% more 
a position that fell short of what our remarkable  training hours available.
history deserves. We are conscious that we need 
to do more and better and will be intensifying our  The extraordinary results we achieved this year are 
efforts and the investments necessary to achieve our  a tribute to all those who make up the Ferrari Group. 
sole objective: to win the Championship. We would like to thank all of them for their outstanding 
personal and professional contribution, and for the very 
The GT Racing Season ended on a very positive  clear passion and sense of responsibility displayed in 
note once again with a tally of 25 international  their work each and every day.
titles crowned by our 36th victory in the 24 Hours 
of Le Mans. Ferrari’s track car range is now more  We also take this opportunity to thank you, our 
competitive than ever, thanks to the new 488 GT3  shareholders, for remaining our trusted partners 
EVO 2020 and 488 Challenge EVO, unveiled during  and supporters in this crucial period of growth and 
the Finali Mondiali at Mugello. innovation for Ferrari.
We are also increasing our commitment to  We cannot close this letter without referring to the 
sustainability in every area of the Company. Aside  Covid-19 that, at the time of writing, affects us all 
from hybrid and first steps in electric technology, our  worldwide and particularly in Italy. Our priority 
work has been focusing on energy consumption in  is and will always be to safeguard the health and 
our facilities. In fact, we are pleased to say that this  wellbeing of all Ferrari employees while assuring to 
year there was a decrease in energy consumption  the extent possible our responsibilities towards our 
per car manufactured. We are determining our  business partners, clients and all other stakeholders.
April 16, 2020
  John Elkann  Louis Carey Camilleri
  Chairman   Chief Executive Officer
Sustainability Report 2019 7