CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
| Being the employer of choice | 
Training and talent development
Along with the need to hire, develop and retain talents, we are aware that we must 
manage human capital as a critical resource to achieve the best possible results.
The success, prestige and appeal of our brand  To protect and pass on the strategic and specific 
depends on the ability to attract talents and  know-how of Ferrari 
retain them. In particular, top drivers, racing   Among all training initiatives, in Ferrari we are very 
management, engineering talent and all the  proud of our “Scuola dei mestieri”, started in 2009. 
employees that make Ferrari unique have to be  It is a unique in-house technical training project 
rewarded, based on their ability, determination, and  which increases the professionalism of junior talents 
expectations. This is why we offer career progression  and motivates senior employees, recognizing their 
opportunities tailored to each individual’s strength  competencies by asking them to become Maestri 
and ambition, and our Company’s requirements,  and pass on Ferrari’s unique heritage to the next 
underpinned by substantial investments in training.  generation. The initiative combines different 
A total of over 57,600 hours (up 11.8% vs. 2018)  didactic methodologies, including on the job 
of training have been provided right across the  sessions and in-classroom training, both focused on 
Company’s employees in 2019. What makes  the consolidation of competencies and skills, with a 
Ferrari’s craftsmanship unique is the direct transfer  particular focus on innovation. 
of knowledge and expertise from senior to junior  While the Maestri transfer their know-how to 
workers, which in our manufacturing process  other employees, we have also internally developed 
takes place directly on the job since we believe in  the “Department Team Leaders”, who are expert 
constantly maintaining excellence through “learning  workers in our R&D and Manufacturing processes. 
by doing”. In the last few years, we have decided to invest 
strongly in the team leaders’ professional and soft 
57,600
skills. We are creating a cross-functional group with 
More than   hours of training 
delivered across the Company’s employees in 2019,  the objective to become the point of reference for 
up 11.8% vs. 2018 the rest of the team. Department Team Leaders 
(now around 125 employees) are also responsible 
Human capital development ensures that our  for the Pit Stop and Pole Position programs among 
Company has the appropriate skill set to execute the  their shift colleagues.
business strategy and improve employee attraction,  In 2019, we consolidated the activities started 
retention, as well as motivation, and, as a result,  in the previous year, with the three main areas 
enhance productivity and the quest for innovation.  of focus being: product innovation (mainly 
Training requests, for employees who receive a  with regard to hybridization, HMI and new 
regular performance and career development  components, in a cross functional training), 
review, are identified during this review process in  process innovation (as in the case of low bake 
order to address the needs of both our Company  painting and additive manufacturing) as well 
and employees.  as support and induction of new colleagues. 
Additionally, in 2019 we started a specific training 
A Training Plan with three specific objectives  focusing on managerial and organizational skills 
is in place: necessary to meet our strategic plan.
Sustainability Report 2019 79