CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
/ Training and talent development
To shape and prepare the managerial class of the  The innovation of 2019 was gaining access 
future for the business, innovation, management  to the Harvard Manage Mentor e-learning 
and human capital development challenges.  platform. The training offer, provided through 
In 2019, 40 Ferrari talents, from all across the  this platform, has been customized according 
organization, started the second edition of the  to our needs and the following three lines of 
Ferrari Corporate Executive MBA, organized in  development: to integrate this platform with 
partnership with the Bologna Business School. The  the Performance and Leadership Management 
objective of the masters program is to improve the  system, to give employees, especially newcomers, 
management skills of the attendees, to let them gain  the basic managerial skills that we consider 
experience on the most recent innovation trends and  essential requirements and to adapt professional 
to convey the Ferrari leadership model. This master’s  development paths based on employees’ 
degree offers a unique, tailor-made program to form  career levels. 
a critical mass within the management class that  In addition, an online training campaign is launched 
will be able to grasp the challenges of the future,  every 3 months and includes all the corporate 
while at the same time preserving the tradition of  mandatory trainings dedicated to new employees. 
Ferrari. During the course of the studies, innovation  These kind of campaigns are repeated periodically 
talks, leadership scrums and site visits to production  to provide a training update to all employees. 
plants are carried out. This master’s degree will  Among the mandatory courses, a session is 
help to develop a group of managers with a shared  dedicated to our Code of Conduct that covers also 
approach to leadership, while respecting and valuing  anti-corruption and human rights topics. In 2019, 
individual differences. A group on which Ferrari can  a similar mandatory online campaign was launched 
rely on to tackle future challenges. on GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) 
training.
To foster and support the inclusion, growth and 
development of our people. In 2019 we consolidated the activities started the 
In line with business and Company requirements  previous year: we introduced the new employees to 
and coherently with the needs expressed in the  the “Ferrari way” to ensure know-how continuity 
Performance & Leadership Management system,  and continued to build employee skills in order 
training activities were provided in the managerial,  to meet the challenges of the future: 15 new cars 
technical and linguistic fields, using various training  between 2019-2022, 5 of which were presented 
tools such as: online courses, classroom courses,  during 2019, including the SF90 Stradale, our first 
coaching programs and teambuilding activities. hybrid series-production car.
NUMBER OF PARTICIPATIONS AND TOTAL TRAINING HOURS OF “SCUOLA DEI MESTIERI”(1)
2019 2018 2017
Participations 2,241 2,219 1,580
Training hours 15,415 13,775 11,912
(1) The figures provided refer to all employees and external staff of Ferrari S.p.A.
80 Sustainability Report 2019