CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
Talent Recruitment and Employee Retention
The excellence, that our products and our brand embody, is what attracts and retains 
the best talents worldwide.
At Ferrari, recruitment and selection is about sourcing  suitable applicants have the opportunity to join 
the right qualities and skills that will represent the  the Ferrari team.
backbone of our future success. Our recruitment 
process provides a platform to engage with future  To ease employees into their new jobs, Ferrari 
employees, to assess competencies through a  provides a two-day induction program. The first day 
structured selection process and to prepare for post- is dedicated to introducing the Company culture 
recruitment integration and development. and mission, as well as guiding new employees 
through the corporate offices and production 
The mission of the recruitment team is to identify,  plants. The following day is focused on health and 
evaluate and bring onboard the individuals which  safety training.
are aligned with our requirements and values 
 We received in excess of 45,000 applications during  To promote a responsible behavior during 
2019, including specific as well as spontaneous  the assembling phase of cars and engines, we 
applications from around the world for engineering,  launched many years ago the “Pit Stop” and 
technical, marketing and financial positions. “Fiorano Race” initiatives, where colleagues on 
the same shift are assigned to “teams”, with key 
We also undertake exchange programs with top  performance indicators in place for the improvement 
universities around the world to engage with  of quality, efficiency and environmental sustainability. 
students, professors, career offices and a network  The teams are then ranked based on the data, with 
of professionals in order to identify talents for the  the best performers being rewarded. Furthermore, we 
future. We offer company insight presentations,  organize the “Pole Position Evo” program to evaluate 
testimonials by Ferrari staff, selected case studies  individual performances. 
at university campus and, for partner universities 
we offer the opportunity to visit the Ferrari  We reward our employees, excluding senior 
facilities. These activities allow us to transmit the  management, through a productivity bonus called 
key values of the company, and therefore to engage  “Premio di Competitività” based on yearly shipments 
directly, or indirectly through communications  and adj. EBITDA results, as well as a product quality 
and social media, nourishing our recruitment  index adjusted for individual absenteeism rates. In 
pipeline. In 2019, alongside our graduate project  2019, each employee received around Euro 5,500.
“Ferrari F1 Engineering Academy”, active since 
2015, we launched three more Academy programs:  A huge part of our employees receive a regular 
“Ferrari GT Manufacturing Academy”, “Ferrari  performance review based on performance and 
GT Engineering Academy” and “Ferrari GT  leadership behaviors, which ends with a final 
Marketing and Sales Academy” with dedicated  evaluation from their assessors at the end of the 
communication at universities, integrating on-line  year. Workers undergo a different review, which is 
testing as well as dedicated assessment centers  based on regular assessments aimed at developing 
managed in Maranello to ensure that the most  their internal career path.
82 Sustainability Report 2019