CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
Our environmental responsibility
Our most significant environmental efforts are deployed through efficiencies in the 
manufacturing processes and a program for the reduction of polluting emissions.
We assemble all of our cars and manufacture all the  at minimizing the impact of our activities on 
engines used in our cars or sold to Maserati at our  the environment, particularly in relation to the 
production facility in Maranello(1) (Italy).  energy consumption of production facilities. A 
The Carrozzeria Scaglietti plant, located in Modena  different team is in charge of overseeing regulatory 
(Italy), is where we manufacture aluminum bodyworks  developments while monitoring the emissions of 
and chassis. The two plants cover a cumulative area of  Ferrari cars.
approximately 716,000 m2. We also own the Mugello 
racing circuit in Scarperia, near Florence (Italy), which  Part of the environmental impact of our 
covers an area of 1,700,000 m2 (of which 1,200,000  activities are related to the product lifecycle. 
m2 of green or tree-covered areas). Ferrari cars are perceived as collectibles and 
therefore the number of cars demolished each 
We directly operate 20 retail stores and maintain  year is very scarce. In addition, the products 
offices for our foreign subsidiaries and other  are generally not considered means of 
smaller facilities in Italy, such as the Museo Enzo  transportation.
Ferrari (MEF) in Modena and the Ferrari museum 
in Maranello. The environmental impact of these  Conscious of the risks and opportunities related 
additional facilities is deemed negligible and is  to climate change, as one of the more relevant 
excluded in this chapter’s data. defining factors for long-term value creation, we 
plan to progressively develop our environmental 
The monitoring and management of the  governance, strategy, metrics and goals, in 
environmental performance of our productive  line with TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related 
plants is assigned to a team that reports to our  Financial Disclosures) and other relevant 
Chief Technology Officer. Their effort is aimed  recommendations.
(1)  Maranello production facility is composed by the main offices and production buildings, the “Nuova Gestione Sportiva” building and the 
adjacent Fiorano track (of approximately 3,000 meters).
92 Sustainability Report 2019