CChaEiOrm Laent taenrd  toO Suurs tJaoiunranbeiyli ty Ferrari Group Our Business S tMakaetheroiladlietry  EMnagtargixe manednt BePstr oParcatcivtiecley  GFoosvteerrninagnce Exceeding Expectations
Beingo tfh ceh eomiceployer Reducinfgo oetnpvririnotnmental  Crewatiitnhg t hane dC Sohmamrinugn iVtyalue Methodology and Scope ForSwtaatredm-Leonotksing  GRI Content Index IndependReenpto Artuditors’s 
FERRARI N.V.
Plants and circuits 
Environmental management  Efficient energy use 
systems
Our culture embraces a rational use of energy, 
We have invested heavily to minimize our  which is mainly used for the manufacturing of cars 
environmental impact since 2001, when the  and engines. Over the years, the Group has strived 
Company was given the ISO 14001 certification  to lower its energy consumption and to minimize 
for our plants in Maranello and Modena. In 2016,  its environmental impact, adopting innovative 
we obtained the renewal of the certification of our  solutions and using renewable energy sources for its 
environmental management system according to  manufacturing facilities. In 2008, we installed our 
the new standard ISO 14001:2015. In addition,  first solar panels and subsequently increased capacity 
in 2007 we obtained and renewed the Integrated  in 2011 and 2015. Since 2014, Ferrari S.p.A. has 
Environmental Authorization. As mentioned in  been purchasing electricity with Guarantee of Origin 
our Environmental Policy, our effort is to minimize  certificates.
the negative impact of our activities on natural 
121
resources and the global environment.   GWh of energy produced 
by Ferrari’s trigenerator
The Mugello Circuit S.p.A. obtained and renewed 
the certification for the environmental management  In addition, from 2009, we started using electricity 
system with ISO 14001 and the EMAS  along with hot and cold water generated by the 
(Eco-Management and Audit Scheme). trigeneration plant(1). In 2019, the trigeneration 
plant produced 83% of the electricity needed for 
the Maranello plant, while the remaining 17% 
originated from renewable sources(2).
(1)  Even if the trigenerator plant was bought by Ferrari in September 2016, data referring to energy consumption and emissions consolidate 
trigenerator plant data for the whole 2016 for comparative reasons.
(2)  Thanks to our photovoltaic system and the purchase of Guarantee of Origin certificates.
94 Sustainability Report 2019