Sustainability Report at 31 March 2019 of the Piquadro Group 
 
1.3  Compliance and risk management 
 
 
For risk assessment and management, the Group has set up an internal 
control system to identify, measure, manage and monitor key risks. The risk 
management system aims to facilitate informed decision-making in line with 
company strategy and objectives. 
The pre-arranged internal function for the identification and management of 
risks is that of an internal audit which works closely with the Audit and Risk 
Committee and with the administrator in charge of the internal control system. 
Based on its guidance, the Board of Directors annually assesses the suitability, 
effectiveness  and  effective  operation  of  the  internal  control  and  risk 
management system. 
 
 
 
The internal control and risk management system is the set of rules, procedures and 
organisational  structures  of  the  Group  to  enable  the  identification,  measurement, 
management and monitoring of the main risks. This system is integrated into the more 
general organisational and corporate governance structures adopted by Piquadro and takes 
into  account  the  reference  models  and  best  practices  existing  within  the  national  and 
international context. The internal control and risk management system also contributes to 
company management which is consistent with the company objectives defined by the Board, 
encouraging taking informed decisions. It helps to ensure the preservation of social heritage, 
the efficiency and effectiveness of business processes, the reliability of financial information, 
compliance with laws and regulations as well as the statute and internal procedures, with 
attention to the effective implementation of the Model ex Legis. Decree 231/2001. 
 
The Parent Company is planning to extend the internal control and risk management system 
in place to the newly acquired French company. 
 
The Italian companies adopting the Organisational and Management Model, carried out a 
careful analysis of the company processes related to their activities, in order to evaluate 
their exposure to the predicate offences covered by  Legis. Decree 231/2001. The mapping 
therefore took into account a number of areas, including participation in public tenders, the 
purchase of raw materials, finished products, semi-finished products and products being 
made,  hiring and management of personnel, corruption and environmental offences. 
 
 
The operational and economic-financial risk assessment is based on a model of identification 
of the nature and level of risk compatible with the organisation's strategic objectives, called 
"Risk Factors Analysis". This document, drawn up for the Parent Company and for the 
subsidiary The Bridge, analysed risks such as: 
 
 
 
 
14 
 
 