Sustainability Report at 31 March 2019 of the Piquadro Group 
 
Type of risk  Method of handling 
Risks related to the production activity  The Group has a historical presence in the countries 
and supply of raw materials, linked to  where it operates at the production level and employs 
its staff in both the production and financial 
significant changes in the 
administrative areas. In addition, the Group operates a 
macroeconomic, political, fiscal or 
constant analysis of possible local issues ensuring full 
legislative framework in areas where 
updating in terms of local regulations. In addition, the 
the Group's products are  scouting of possible new suppliers in different 
manufactured, as well as the Group's  geographical areas continues. 
inability to maintain and renew its   
business relationships.  
Risks related to the operation on  For a long time, the Group has diversified its 
multiple international markets and the  investments and its presence in Europe and Asia. In 
distribution network, linked to possible  addition, although the indirect sales channel still 
changes in the political and economic  accounts for a significant percentage of sales, the 
situation in different countries, the  Group has been in a policy of retail expansion for 
need to face competition from  several years, leading to the opening of direct-to-
operators in different markets,  manage stores throughout the and thus to increase the 
difficulty in being able to satisfy the  sales channel managed directly by the organisation. 
clientele tastes of different countries, 
the greater difficulty in protecting their 
products from counterfeiting activities. 
 
Risks related to the protection of  The Group employs a company that specialises in 
intellectual property rights and  protecting everything related to intellectual property 
counterfeiting related, therefore, to the  (brands, trademarks, ornamental models, utility 
protection of rights related to design,  models, patents, etc.). 
processes and production  Trademarks are registered in virtually every country in 
technologies, utility models as well as  the world; even in those where the Group does not yet 
brands and other trademarks signs all  operate. 
of which are crucial for the success of  With regard to the protection of trademarks, the Group 
the products on the market and the  has also been operating for many years a system of 
Group's competitive positioning.  monitoring new registration requests, so that, already 
  at the initial stage, it can counter any registration 
concessions of brands that have relevance to their 
own. 
Risks related to the integrity of the  The Group implements updating procedures to ensure 
information system identified in  that it is defended against external attacks of computer 
particular in data integrity, continuity  viruses.  On the continuity of the information system: 
of the I.T. system and segregation to  Piquadro has a data centre with redundant virtualised 
external and internal access to  servers on three equivalent nodes renewed in January 
information (vulnerabilities).  2019. The server room, armoured and fireproof, is 
  equipped with: intrusion and smoke detectors, flood 
and temperature sensors all connected to the alarm 
control unit that can alert selected personnel in the 
event of problems detected. The Disaster Recovery 
site has been relocated to Florence in the server room 
of The Bridge, it is updated via VPN via a 100 MB 
connection with fully dedicated bandwidth at night and 
partially reserved during the day. Almost all servers are 
replicated (all critical ones) with a maximum RPO of 24 
hours. During this exercise, Piquadro replaced the 
firewall with single sign-on integration with active 
directory and internet access profiling. The antivirus 
used on all systems connected to the corporate 
network is NOD 32 kept up to date with the latest 
version and monitored through its administration 
console. With regard to data integrity, this is stored on 
databases whose access by developers and 
15 
 
 