Sustainability Report at 31 March 2019 of the Piquadro Group 
 
Type of risk  Method of handling 
administrators is monitored and controlled by the 
appropriate software and appropriate procedures. The 
data flow that takes place via e-mail, e-commerce, 
order entry is protected through regularly updated 
electronic certificates. A storage upgrade is planned for 
the new fiscal year on both the production and the DR 
site that will allow a full replication of production on the 
DR site. 
Risks related to changing customer  The Group's management considers that the key 
preferences and increased competition  factors in countering these risks are: 
The Group attributes its success to the  - the ability to offer products in line with the 
consumer's appreciation for the style  expectations of reference consumers; 
and quality of its products, while still  - the pursuit of appropriate marketing policies; 
contemplating the hypothesis of any 
- maintaining and developing its production model as 
changes in consumer tastes which the 
well as 
Piquadro Group cannot anticipate and 
- maintaining and strengthening its single-brand and 
that they may be able to be satisfied by 
multi-brand distribution capacity 
competitors. 
Economic and financial risks related in  Risk management is carried out at central level in the 
particular to credit risk from  context of specific organisational directives governing 
commercial transactions or financing  their management and the control of all transactions 
activities, liquidity risk related to the  that have a narrow relevance in the composition of 
availability of financial resources  financial and/or commercial assets and liabilities.  
access to the credit market and market  For example, in relation to exchange rate risk, 
risk, better division into exchange rate  Management adopted a risk-containment strategy 
risk components (given by operating in  better defined as a "hedge accounting policy" which 
non-Euro currency areas) and interest  consists of continuous coverage of the risks of 
rate risk for exposure to instruments  purchases on a six-month time horizon based on the 
interest-generating financial  amount of orders issued. 
institutions. 
 
In relation to the issues of sustainability, the following areas of risk are also highlighted: 
 
Type of risk  Management arrangements 
Environmental risks linked to the lack  In the Code of Ethics, the Group has expressed its 
of compliance with the environmental  commitment to the protection of the environment and 
regulations in countries where the  conducting its activities seeking a balance between 
Group works, inefficient management  economic initiatives and environmental needs. 
of materials and energy or incorrect  In addition, the Parent Company has adopted a special 
waste disposal.  section on environmental crimes, under the 
  organisation and management Model under Legis. 
Decree 231/01 and has adopted a waste management 
procedure. These areas were also analysed in the 
subsidiary The Bridge S.p.A. that has finalised the 
adoption of the special section on environmental 
offences. 
16 
 
 