Sustainability Report at 31 March 2019 of the Piquadro Group 
 
Type of risk  Management arrangements 
Social risks related to non-compliance  The products are subject to rigorous controls to ensure 
with the specific regulations of the  their quality and safety: special laboratory  tests are 
relative products among other things,  carried out on both the finished products and materials 
on the impact of the products  to test for resistance, structural integrity, hydro-
themselves on health and safety, the  repellent qualities and non-toxicity. As a benchmark, 
failure to meet customer expectations ,  the Group has the REACH European Regulation which 
the inadequacy of the research and  governs the use of hazardous chemicals in production 
development process.  processes with compliance also from its suppliers, 
where applicable. In addition, the Group has adopted a 
specific intellectual property management procedure. 
Risks related to personnel in the  In the Code of Ethics, The Group has formalised its 
unsuitability of the attraction and  commitment to ensure the physical and moral integrity 
recruitment process, development  of its employees and internal collaborators, working 
plans and staff motivation, as well as  conditions regarding individual dignity and safe and 
the inadequacy of occupational health  healthy work environments, in full compliance with the 
and safety measures.  current legislation. The Parent Company and the 
Italian subsidiary The Bridge, have carried out 
workplace risk analysis, formalised in the RAD (Risk 
Assessment Document).The same was done by the 
French company Lancel Sogedi S.A. 
In order to improve staff training in this area, Piquadro 
is implementing new procedures related to 
occupational health and safety whereas The Bridge 
S.p.a. is currently developing the management of 
these risks.   
Risks related to the fight against active  The Group has formalised the values of ethics and 
and passive corruption are linked to  integrity which inspire its business in the Code of 
the possibility of the Group's  Ethics: through the dissemination of this, it seeks to 
management and staff carrying out  spread a culture of social responsibility when 
unethical, unauthorised, violations of  conducting the business. 
rules and regulations, unlawful with  The Parent Company and The Bridge S.p.a., in 
particular reference to the crime of  addition, have adopted an Organisational and 
active and passive corruption.  Management Model pursuant to Legis. Decree 231/01 
under which areas and operations which are most at 
risk of crime have been identified and analysed, for 
example, such as requesting authorisations, grants, 
licences and certifications, sponsorships and 
donations, as well as the risks of dealing with external 
entities both public and private (Revenue Agency, 
I.N.P.S, I.N.A.I.L).The Parent Company is planning to 
construct and adopt for the company Lancel Italia S.r.l. 
an Organisational and Management Model in line with 
that stipulated by Legis. Decree 231/01. 
 
17 
 
 