Sustainability Report at 31 March 2019 of the Piquadro Group 
 
Compared to the material topics published in the previous NFS, it was noted that the topic 
"welfare" was also found to be material. 
For each issue identified as material, below is a brief description of the relevance that the topic 
has  for  the  Group  and  its  boundaries  (where  the  impacts  occur  and  organization’s 
involvement). 
 
 
Scope 
Material topic  Relevance for the Group 
Where the  Involvement of 
impacts occur  the Group3 
Governance and compliance 
Respecting ethical principles and complying with 
laws and regulations in business conduct are a 
Ethics, business  fundamental and essential condition for the 
integrity and  Piquadro Group. In all relations with its  Piquadro Group  Direct 
compliance  counterparts, the Group is committed to pursuing 
conduct based on fairness, loyalty and 
collaboration. 
The Group pays particular attention to the 
assessment of the main risks that could have a 
Risk assessment 
negative impact on its work and threaten its solidity.  Piquadro Group  Direct 
and management 
In this sense, resources are used for the analysis 
and correct management. 
The focus on Group Corporate Governance is 
geared towards achieving strategic objectives and 
Corporate 
at the same time ensuring the correct and sound  Parent Company  Direct 
Governance 
management of business, ensuring the protection of 
all stakeholders. 
Economic responsibility 
Economic and  The Group aims to generate solid and positive 
financial  economic and financial performance from a 
Piquadro Group  Direct 
performance  and  medium- to long-term perspective and distribute 
value creation  value to its stakeholders. 
Responsibility in the supply chain 
Throughout  the  value  chain,  the  Group  aims  to 
maintain  relationships  based  on  fairness  with  its 
partners. The Group recognises the value of the 
Sustainable and  materials  and services  provided by  its  suppliers, 
transparent  which are a fundamental element for the high-quality  Piquadro Group 
Direct and indirect 
management of the  standards of its products. In addition, the Group aims  and Suppliers 
supply chain   to define a Supplier Code of Conduct and insert, as 
part of the qualification process, parameters related 
to the protection of human rights and other social and 
environmental criteria. 
Social responsibility – employees 
Management,  The Group pays particular attention to the 
Piquadro Group  Direct 
development and  management and development of its employees, 
                                                
3 Direct Involvement of the Group: the impact is directly caused by the Group's activities; 
Indirect involvement of the Group: the impact is directly linked to the Group's activities, products and services through a business 
relationship (e.g. relationship between the Group and its suppliers); 
Contribution by the Group: the impact is linked to the Group's activities, products and services as they are generated by parties 
that the organisation interacts with. 
23 
 
 