Sustainability Report at 31 March 2019 of the Piquadro Group 
 
Scope 
Material topic  Relevance for the Group 
Where the  Involvement of 
impacts occur  the Group3 
retention of  aware that they are one of the necessary pillars to 
employees  achieve their strategic objectives. 
In this sense, a number of vocational growth 
programmes are undertaken. The Group is 
constantly looking for the best talent and is 
committed to maintaining the best resources within 
it. 
In dealing with employees, the Group maintains a 
Diversity, inclusion 
strict adherence to the principles of non-
and equal  Piquadro Group  Direct 
discrimination and equal opportunities, as 
opportunities 
expressed in its Code of Ethics. 
Protecting its employees’ health and safety is 
constantly a priority for the Group, which is 
Occupational health  Employees of the 
committed to complying with all the current rules  Direct 
and safety  Piquadro Group4 
and to increasing the training of its employees in 
these areas. 
In all relations, both with  its employees and with 
Piquadro Group; 
Human rights  suppliers, the Group maintains a conduct aimed at  Direct and indirect 
Suppliers 
the protection of human rights. 
The Group aims to develop policies, benefits 
(economic and non-economic) and actions aimed at 
Welfare  improving the well-being of employees, in order to  Piquadro Group  Direct 
create a comfortable working environment that will 
meet the workers’ needs and expectations. 
Social responsibility – products and services 
The Group has the constant goal of extending its 
Piquadro Group 
Brand image  and  brand and at the same time protecting its reputation. 
and the indirect  Direct and indirect 
reputation  The Group's image must convey the values on 
sales channel 
which its business is based. 
Maintaining a high standard of quality of your 
products is a vital condition. For this reason, each 
Piquadro Group 
Quality of products  item is subjected to stringent tests and controls  Direct and indirect 
and Suppliers 
which aim to ensure that numerous quality 
parameters are passed. 
The Group's growth involves the ability to innovate 
Innovation, 
and develop new products that can meet customers’ 
research and  Piquadro Group  Direct 
different needs. For this reason, the Group invests 
development 
extensive resources in research and development. 
The Group aims to always place innovative and 
Piquadro Group 
Customer  high-quality products on the market to fully meet its 
and the indirect  Direct and indirect 
satisfaction  customers’ expectations. Customer satisfaction is a 
sales channel 
primary goal for the Group. 
Environmental responsibility  
Responsible  Environmental protection is an area that is 
consumption of  increasing its relevance for the Group, which will  Piquadro Group  Direct 
materials  evaluate the changes to reduce its impacts, in 
                                                
4 The company will analyse the significance of other non-employee workers in order to assess the need to collect data from 
employers of external collaborators and suppliers operating at the Group's sites and/or under Group's control, assessing the 
quality and accuracy of such data over which it does not exercise direct control. 
 
24 
 
 