Sustainability Report at 31 March 2019 of the Piquadro Group 
 
Design and innovation 
 
All Piquadro products are the result of careful design. There are several patents filed by 
the  Company,  in  recognition  of  the  numerous  technical  and  functional  innovations 
implemented. Even the smallest detail is studied and designed by a whole team of designers 
who know and interpret the brand's values. 
The development of constantly new solutions and the search for what is new in design and 
technology is the result of constant research on materials and trends, often in collaboration 
with the most important design schools in Italy and abroad. 
Youngsters’ creativity is an important source of inspiration for Piquadro. Attention towards 
new talent is seen by promoting competitions which give young designers an opportunity to 
work on concrete cases by demonstrating their potential. 
 
Patents 
Piquadro's focus on planning every single detail and on the products’ maximum functionality 
translates into a constant research activity and the development of ad hoc solutions which are 
often innovative and subject to registration. As of 31 March 2019, the company has 22 active 
patents and 2 filed patents, related to both products and to components and accessories. 
 
  
Internet of Things 
The Piquadro world is designed and conceived as constantly conducting research to create 
products which unite aesthetics and performance. From this research comes URBAN, the new 
line of backpacks, bags and trolleys which perfectly combines design and features and 
presented to Pitti Immagine Uomo in January 2019. 
Made of fine leather (which has been treated, making it both soft to the touch and very durable), 
the line contains two flagship products: the backpack and trolley equipped with BAGMOTIC 
technology, the automation bag, for which Piquadro was the pioneer by progressively exploring 
the modern philosophy of the IoT, the Internet of Things, and developing applications which 
allow you to make "smart" bags and suitcases. 
The backpacks and trolleys have a decidedly sporty line and colour scheme and are equipped 
with several features, some simpler and others very technological. Both have a pocket which 
has been specifically designed to hold a power bank that 
not only allows you to charge your smartphone multiple 
times by induction, but is also connected via Bluetooth to 
your  smartphone  and/or  smartwatch  thanks  to  an  app 
available on the App Store and Play Store and, through 
this, it can perform a number of other functions. First of all, 
there is a GPS tracker which acts as an alarm and which 
allows the mobile phone to ring when the connection fails 
because the backpack is far away from its owner.  
The Connequ app can also manage the rucksack and 
URBAN trolley’s inventory system function. It is a convenient system which allows you to 
quickly check the contents of the bag or trolley without the possibility of error. A device, also  
32 
 
 