Sustainability Report at 31 March 2019 of the Piquadro Group 
 
connected via Bluetooth to the smartphone, detects the presence of objects on which a special 
tag has been applied. By attaching a small sticker to your devices, you have the option to make 
an  inventory of such equipment at any time with the help of your mobile phone.  
The Connequ app, in combination with the air pollution detector, which is located inside the 
backpack, allows you to detect the values of the main indicators of the air quality and therefore 
the particulates (PM2.5 and PM10), CO2 equivalent and volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 
as well as some environmental parameters such as the temperature, humidity and atmospheric 
pressure. The device, connected via Bluetooth to the mobile phone, sends information on the 
air quality with a notification in the event of a major change in one of the quality indicators.       
The SOS button, also included in the URBAN backpack, is a device that allows you to send a 
text message with the location to a predefined number. Its position on the shoulder of the 
BAGMOTIC backpack has been devised specifically for those who ride scooters or bicycles in 
city traffic. Its first release has a button that, if pressed, lets you send the SMS with the location. 
Piquadro provides an area in the Cloud for all BAGMOTIC users that will allow them to 
historicise, anonymise and aggregate relevant data, with the information 
they need, such as the pollution values on a given route or the list of items 
that are most often forgotten. It's also possible to save, in this Cloud area, 
e-tickets of transport companies and automatically receive the weight and 
size limits of permitted luggage. 
The backpack is also equipped with a combination lock for the safety of 
its  contents  as  well  as  a  special  wallet  pocket  with  screened  RFID 
protection to avoid cloning credit cards. In addition, there is an anti-theft cable that allows the 
backpack to be secured to your seat by fixing itself through a combination. 
It should be noted that Piquadro does not process any kind of data relating to the services 
provided for localisation, which, therefore, are only stored locally in the customer’s smartphone 
or smartwatch. 
 
   
33 
 
 