Sustainability Report at 31 March 2019 of the Piquadro Group 
 
2.2  The Bridge 
 
Ponte Pelletteria S.p.A. was founded in 1969 on the outskirts of Florence thanks to the idea 
of five craftsmen. 
In 1975, the brand The Bridge was born, which translates the Italian word "ponte" referring to 
the "Ponte a Greve” [Bridge to Greve"] when used to connect the village of Scandicci to nearby 
Florence. 
From the 1980s, a selection of women's handbags was added to men's briefcases. In the 
following decade, the brand's most iconic models such as the portagiornali (magazine rack) 
and postina (messenger bag) were made. In 2008, they opened the first flagship label in Turin 
and in 2017 the brand was acquired by Piquadro and changed its company name to The 
Bridge S.p.A. 
There are three values in The Bridge's Brand Identity: style, transversality and long life. 
 
The combination of a recognisable style (which is always up to date with the times), the 
transversality of use, (which makes the product adaptable to all occasions) and the quality 
associated with long-lasting products have all contributed to the craftsmanship of the product, 
guaranteed by the workmanship of master craftsmen, to the uniqueness of a brand with a 
British flavour.  
The Bridge recounts the "Tuscany way of life", with its casual and sophisticated look, a 
state of being, a sober, composed yet well-maintained lifestyle which blends in beautifully, for 
a savoir vivre and comfortable safety. 
The care and detail with which the skilled craftsmen create these products makes them unique 
and extraordinary. Usage over time increases their value. 
The Bridge products are all created with the same care and love for simple things, well-made 
and lasting over time. 
The Bridge produces a wide range of products ranging from trunks to keyrings, from travel 
bags, suitcases, work bags, satchels, bandoliers, messenger bags, women's handbags, belts, 
wallets, diaries, iPad holders, computer cases and a long list of household and leisure 
products. 
 
 In 2019, The Bridge S.p.a., through the Parent Company Piquadro S.p.a., makes its first foray 
into the world of the circular economy and does this by investing in the Bolognese start-up 
Vintag, launched in May 2017, which through its app, offers a buying platform dedicated 
exclusively to vintage. Less than two 
years after its launch, Vintag, which is 
not  simply  a  second-hand 
marketplace but actually the meeting 
point of those who want to exchange 
stylish  objects  from  the  past,  has 
about 19,000 active users and 70,000 
items  for  sale,  from  clothing  and 
accessories to design, modern art and 
collectibles.   
34 
 
 