Sustainability Report at 31 March 2019 of the Piquadro Group 
 
2.3  Lancel Group  
 
Lancel is a French leather goods company founded in Paris in 1876 by Angèle and Alphonse 
Lancel and developed by their son Albert. The company was owned by the founding family 
until 1997, when it was purchased by the Richemont Group. 
 
In its early days, Lancel made accessories for smokers; later the brand diversified and offered 
decorative  items  and  accessories,  such  as  watches,  silverware,  glasses,  barometers, 
scissors, lamps, table accessories and products made in their workshops by the craftsmen. 
 
At the beginning of the 20th century, Angèle and 
Alphonse created the first leather goods offering a 
diverse range of products, such as clutch bags and 
the first handbags equipped with a cigarette holder: 
Lancel, therefore, began to represent the Parisian 
lifestyle by creating, until the 1920s, precious leather 
bags (lizard, satin, soft calf skin) with clasps for 
jewellery or small mirrors, or with a makeup kit and 
a secret compartment containing a small umbrella. 
Albert  Lancel  turns  handbags  into  a  fashion 
accessories. 
 
One of the most iconic historical and iconic articles of the maison is called Daligramme and is 
a tribute to Salvador Dali: in the seventies, the surrealist painter gave Gala Eluard, his wife 
and muse, a Lancel bag which had a silk-screen “daligramme", a secret love alphabet with 
which the artist communicated with his beloved. That special model was reinterpreted in the 
2000s and became the it-piece of the collection, thus representing a new symbol which goes 
beyond the classic monogram: the daligramme became an emblem of great love, hidden 
behind fascinating symbolism. 
 
Lancel is regularly in contact with artists to participate in the creative process of its leather 
goods lines, such as Isabelle Adjani or Brigitte Bardot who actively participated in designing 
and creating the relative bags. In 2010, Brigitte Bardot 
designed and created with Lancel " the Bardot bag," which 
respects nature and animals, not using leather and without 
any chemical processes, thus creating an accessory which 
has become a cult. 
 
In 2016, Maison Lancel celebrated 140 years of creation, 
boldness and French elegance where the keys to success 
are based, from the outset, on the ingenuity of design, on the authenticity of luxury, thus 
creating a dialogue between beauty and functionality, style and innovation. 
     
         
 
 
35 
 
 