Sustainability Report at 31 March 2019 of the Piquadro Group 
 
2.4  Research and development 
 
 
Innovation, research and development of new products represent a constant 
challenge for the Piquadro Group, to which specific resources are dedicated, 
to provide customers with increasingly innovative and high-quality products. 
The innovation affects both product design and digital add-ons to increase 
functionality. 
 
 
The Group's R&D activity for the Piquadro brand is carried out internally through a 
dedicated team that, in recent years, has been particularly focused on BAGMOTIC, which 
integrates technology into briefcases, backpacks, trolleys and luggage. During the year ended 
31 March 2019, it focused, in particular, on the development of travel-related products.  In fact, 
Piquadro focused on several lines where, inspired by the technology of car cruise control, the 
“cockpit” was created: a sort of control panel integrated into the suitcase. On this flap, applied 
outside the cabin luggage, you can charge electronic devices without having to open your 
suitcase. On the same flap, you will find the Connequ application, the device for tracking 
luggage. The CONNEQU App, which is at the heart of the BAGMOTIC project and allows new 
possibilities for interaction with suitcases and bags, was updated during the course of last year 
with new features. The new products are equipped with i) a built-in battery which charges your 
smartphone and tablet for simple contact, ii) a warning device in the event of theft or loss, iii) 
a device which shows the level of the power bank battery, iv) a handle which weighs the trolley 
and informs you which airlines accept it as cabin luggage  v)  a Bluetooth lock and vi) a device 
which allows worldwide traceability.  Wanting to stand out in the field of luggage, an aluminium 
travel collection has been created: a unique collection, thanks to the elegant and stylistically 
sophisticated details. 
  
 
The Bridge's Research and Development is carried out in the subsidiary The Bridge S.p.A. 
by a dedicated team. The Bridge’s products originate from a combination of craftsmanship 
and the continuous study of design and increasingly new features. In the company there has 
always been a real artisan workshop from which prototypes are born. A team of designers is 
responsible for building new collections for each season, interpreting the needs of the market 
and the company’s DNA. 
The collections are the result of research from analysing trends. This begins long before the 
actual creation of the products, with the trends influencing the materials and colours chosen 
for the season. The proposals are assessed with the sales force to respond to the standards 
of  functionality  and  modernity  which  make  the  products  attractive  to  an  attentive  and 
demanding public. 
As of 31 March 2019, the company has 143 trademarks and patents filed for both products 
and utility/design models. 
 
 
 
 
 
36 
 
 