Sustainability Report at 31 March 2019 of the Piquadro Group 
 
The  Piquadro  Group  has  embarked  on  a  continuous  improvement  process  related  to 
sustainability aspects with a view to implementing social and environmental responsibility in 
the medium to long term. 
This path will start from an in-depth analysis of the risks generated and incurred, including 
those related to the supply chain. In this regard, a summary of the objectives planned in the 
various areas of sustainability is reported: 
 
Environmental issues 
As explained in the Code of Ethics, the Group considers the environment as a primary asset 
of the community to be protected and safeguarded. To this end, company activities are 
planned by seeking a balance between economic initiatives and environmental needs, always 
in compliance with the applicable legal provisions. In addition, the Parent Company has 
analysed, within the framework of the Organisational and Management Model pursuant to 
Legislative Decree 231/01, the activities exposed to the risk of environmental crimes and 
adopted a special part relating to environmental crimes. These areas were also analysed in 
the subsidiary The Bridge S.p.A. which in June 2018 finalised the adoption of the special 
section on environmental offences. 
In order to strengthen its commitment to responsible management of resources, reduction of 
energy consumption and better management of emissions into the atmosphere, the Piquadro 
Group confirms its commitment to adopting a Group environmental policy. 
 
Fight against active and passive corruption 
The  issue  is  dealt  with  in  the  Group's  Code  of  Ethics  and  is  supervised  under  the 
Organisational and Management Model pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/01, adopted by 
the Parent Company and by the subsidiary The Bridge SpA, analysing the areas and company 
operations most closely exposed to the risk of corruption and adopting the necessary anti-
corruption measures. 
In order to confirm and strengthen its commitment, which is essential and shared, in the fight 
against active and passive corruption, the Group confirms its objective of adopting an anti-
corruption policy at Group level. 
 
Employee-related issues 
In the Code of Ethics, the Group has formalised its commitment to protecting and promoting 
the value of human resources, increasing its skills and guaranteeing safe working conditions 
which  respect  individual  dignity.  At  Parent  Company  level,  two  personnel  management 
procedures have been codified, one in view of the administrative management of resources, 
the other drawn up within the organisation and management Model pursuant to Legislative 
Decree 231/01. Furthermore, the Italian companies have adopted a procedure for managing 
health and safety at work, including a "safety organisation chart". The Group confirms its 
commitment  to  adopting  a  policy  of  management  and  development  of  personnel  and 
occupational health and safety, with a view to continuous improvement. 
 
Protection of human rights 
In the Code of Ethics, the Group affirms its commitment to respecting human rights by referring 
to the ILO (International Labour Organisation) Declaration on fundamental principles and 
rights at work, including the prohibition of forced labour and child labour, freedom of trade 
union association, the prohibition of discrimination and harassment. Moreover, through the 
dissemination of the Code of Ethics, the Group aims to apply these principles to all Group 
companies. With a view to continuous improvement, the Group confirms the objective of 
defining a Supplier Code of Conduct and implementing a sharing process with the main 
categories of business partners, as well as providing training courses for Group employees in 
the area of human rights. 
4 
 
 