Sustainability Report at 31 March 2019 of the Piquadro Group 
 
2.6  Customer experience 
 
 
Customer satisfaction is an extremely important objective for the Piquadro 
Group. All products are designed and created to best meet the customers’ 
needs. 
The communication policy is aimed at spreading and consolidating the image 
of the Piquadro, The Bridge and Lancel brands. 
 
 
 
The Piquadro Group aims to earn the trust, respect and loyalty of its customers based on the 
excellence of the work of its employees and collaborators. 
The activity of all workers is based on the criterion of quality, essentially understood as 
achieving the customer’s total satisfaction. 
The Lancel Group, recently acquired by the Piquadro Group, has also always striven to satisfy 
all the customer’s needs, from the initial product design to the moment the customer actually 
holds it in his or her hands. This involves following and anticipating their desires and ensuring 
a satisfying and rewarding experience. 
 
To ensure a high-quality experience for customers, there are also many benefits for customers 
registered in PiquadroClub, including (depending on the value of the product purchased): 
•  A warranty without a receipt; 
•  extension of the warranty from 24 to 36 months; 
•  welcome gifts and birthday presents (15% discount, seven days before and after your   
birthday); 
•  invitation to pre-sales, special initiatives and promotions developed during the year; 
•  invitation to preview the new collections in store or online or on press-days; 
•  home delivery of items purchased at airports; 
•  at the request of the retail function, exclusive promotions in boutiques communicated 
only by e-mail, only for subscribers; 
•  free personalisation before Christmas (or other occasions, such as Valentine's Day), 
through  a  newsletter  with  products  which  the  client  can  customise  in-store  or, 
depending on the "history" and the customer's purchase behaviour, there may be free 
personalisation (after the first purchase) and access to limited edition products. 
 
In addition, the customer experience of Piquadro, The Bridge and Lancel customers is also 
strengthened through the new communication channels and social media. 
In fact, the Group considers that in addition to the perennial attention to the needs of 
customers,  marketing  and  communication  strategies  also  play  a  very  important  role  in 
consolidating the image of the Group's brands. 
The Piquadro brand website, which over the years has been constantly updated, guarantees 
an innovative user experience through simple and intuitive navigation and allows you to 
appreciate the quality of Piquadro products. Further innovations on digital platforms are also 
planned for next year for the Group's other brands. 
 
40 
 
 