SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 
THE DEFINITION OF THE MATERIAL ISSUES
 
 
For Cementir Group, the relevant issues for the company and its stakeholders are those that have an impact, 
directly or indirectly, on Cementir’s ability to create, preserve or that adversely affect the Group’s value.  
The materiality analysis performed by the Group three years ago was part of a broader assessment of the 
sustainability performance of Cementir, through which useful elements were collected that helped in setting the 
groundwork for the Group sustainability strategy defined in 2019. The initial analysis saw the involvement of the 
management both of Cementir Holding and of the Group’s various Regions and identified the priority aspects for 
the company and for its stakeholders. The 2018 topics, in line with those defined three years ago, were evaluated 
in the previous reporting year in order to assess their continued relevance. The review consisted of a benchmark 
with a panel of companies operating in the sector and a survey on the context and the challenges the sector has 
to deal with. The results of this work confirmed that the material topics maintained their relevance in 2018.  
In 2019 therefore, from this starting point, and following the definition of the sustainability strategy and targets, 
the Group performed a slight review of the topics and their importance. The review was performed at a desk 
level, assessing the requirements of the top management, as witnessed by the sustainability strategy. Based on 
this, the materiality matrix was defined. The results were then reviewed and validated by the top management. 
Below, the 2019 materiality matrix is presented. The matrix illustrates the most relevant topics both for the 
business and for its stakeholders, as presented in the upper-right-hand corner of the graph. All the material 
topics are important in the organisation, except for the subject of health and safety which also has an impact on 
third parties operating in Group plants.
5,0
Health & Safety
Business Performance&
Expansion & consoldiation
4,0 Use of alternative
fuels and materials
s Climate Change
r
e
d
l
ho Innovation Ethics, Anti-corruption
e 3,0 & Compliance
k
a Value creation People managment
t
S and development
o  Fair competition
t Water management Industial relations
e  Community engagement White Cement
nc 2,0 Biodiversity Diversity management applications & quality
va Diffuse Emissions Human rights CEmhainssnieolned Customers management
e
l
Re Logistic and Supply chain Transparency & accountability
1,0
Waste management
0,0
0,0 1,0 2,0 3,0 4,0 5,0
Relevance to Cementir Group
9