3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 
LOOKING AT THE VALUE CREATED
Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS): a voluntary scheme created by the European Community which 
can be joined voluntarily by organizations (companies, public bodies, etc.) to assess and improve their 
environmental performance and provide the public and other interested parties with information on their 
environmental management. The main aim of EMAS is to help creating sustainable economic development, 
highlighting the role and responsibilities of businesses. To obtain (and maintain) the EMAS certification 
(registration), organizations must subject their environmental management system to a compliance 
assessment performed by an Accredited Auditor, and have the same auditor validating their Environmental 
Report (and its updates, which are usually annual). 
ISO 9001: a voluntary international standard published in 1987 by the International Organization for 
Standardization, regarding the requirements of Quality Management Systems for organizations in any sector 
and of any size. 
OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration): agency of the US Department of Labor, which 
introduced standards for occupational safety. 
l/t: Litres per tonne. 
m3: Cubic metre. 
NO: Nitrogen oxide. 
NO2: Nitrogen dioxide. 
NOx: Nitrogen oxides (NO and NO2). 
SO2: Sulphur dioxide. 
 
Emissions “Scope 1”: are all the direct emissions from the company’s own sources or those controlled by 
the company. 
Emissions “Scope 2”: are the indirect emissions of the company, those linked to the purchase of energy 
from sources controlled by another subject. 
 
EMISSION FACTORS USED
 
To calculate the direct emissions of CO2 equivalents (Scope 1), the emission factors of the 2006 IPCC Guidelines 
for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (2006 IPCC Guidelines) were used. 
To calculate the indirect emissions of CO2 equivalents (Scope 2), the emission factors provided by Ecoinvent 
3.3 were used. The Database Ecoinvent 3.3 is a database that has emission factors linked to the electricity 
production mix of several countries in the world. 
Independent Auditor’s Report on the Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 
110099