continued
>PEOPLE Pillar III: We value our people
UN SDGs Target Detailed description 2019 Results Deadline and progress Pages
Link between  The sustainability targets defined by  In 2019, Cementir  2020 Target in line  Incentives  
employee’s  the Group are included in the monetary  established sustainability  with planned  for the 
remuneration and  incentive plan adopted by Cementir targets as part of its  roadmap management 
sustainability targets sustainability strategy  (pag. 59)
definition. Some targets, 
(i.e. alternative fuels and 
alternative raw materials) 
have already been included 
in the 2019 monetary 
incentive plan. Other targets 
(i.e. CO2 reduction) will be 
included starting from 2020
Promotion of gender  Implementation of a specific Group  42% of Board Members  ongoing Target achieved Diversity and 
equality with an  Diversity Policy are women Inclusion  
objective of at least  (pag. 72)
30% of the Board of 
Directors being 
composed of women
>LOCAL COMMUNITY Pillar IV: We support our communities
UN SDGs Target Detailed description 2019 Results Deadline and progress Pages
Transparent  In 2020, Cementir will submit CDP  Limited assurance  2020 Target in line  See Independent 
communication with  Climate Change Questionnaire and, as  engagement on  with planned  Auditor’s Report 
stakeholders already done in the past years, the  Sustainability Report by  roadmap (pag. 110) 
Sustainability Report will be assured by  external Auditors 
external auditors  
New corporate website 
with dedicated section 
for Sustainability 
www.cementirholding.com 
Quality Education for  In Turkey, the Group supports the  The Işıkkent High School  ongoing Target in line  Cimentas 
the local community Çimentaş Education and Health  provides education at all  with planned  Foundation 
Foundation. Since its establishment,  levels from nursery  roadmap (pag. 79)
the Foundation has sponsored over 500  school to high school
scholarships for upper school and 
university students. Thanks to the 
Foundation’s financial support, the 
Işıkkent High School was founded
Implementation of  A human rights self-assessment  Inclusion of Human  2022 Target in line  Human Rights 
monitoring systems to  checklist, based on Cementir Code of  Rights checklist as part  with planned  (pag. 44)
eliminate human rights  Ethics, UN Declaration on Human  of the Internal Audit  roadmap
related risks across the  Rights, ILO Conventions and UK Slavery  work program
Group Act has been established and has been 
included as part of Internal Audit 
process. In the next 3 years the 
checklist will be applied to all major 
Cementir companies
16