LEADER IN WHITE CEMENT 
The Cementir Group is the world’s leading producer and exporter of white cement, with the 27% share of 
worldwide trade and a production capacity over 3 million tons. With the Aalborg White® brand we are the 
leader in China, the United States, Western Europe, Australia, Malaysia, Egypt. 
EUROPE
CHINA
USA
ASIA
PACIFIC
AUSTRALIA
Aalborg White® has always been identified with white cement throughout the world. A pure, high quality 
cement that can be found everywhere from Park Avenue skyscrapers in Manhattan, to the London Olympics 
structures and even the Lindholm High Museum in Nørresundby, Denmark. 
https://www.cementirholding.com/en/our-business/projects 
The distinctive feature of white cement is its colour. Such whiteness is obtained thanks to very pure and select 
raw materials, the use of complex production processes and an extremely rigorous quality control process 
which allow this material to be used in complex architectural designs and sophisticated aesthetic applications. 
The peculiarity of the limestone used for manufacturing AALBORG WHITE® is the lack of contamination from 
sand and clay, a circumstance that makes it very pure, ideal for the production of white cement. The 
combination of this pure raw material, high-quality sands and kaolin, advanced technology, a specialised 
workforce and over 100 years of experience have made AALBORG WHITE® cement unique in the world for its 
properties such as high reflection, high mechanical performance, low alkali content and high resistance to 
sulphates. As the world leader in the white cement market with the Aalborg White® brand, Cementir offers 
a wide product range which complies with the best international standards. Our industrial processes are 
inspired by the Group’s consolidated best practices that guarantee our customers a unique quality and 
reliability over time. Our research quality technical centre (RQT) has a worldwide reputation for international 
 
patents, awards and multiple collaborations with prestigious universities.
26