1 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 
THE CEMENTIR GROUP
bright colour over time in wet and poor lighting conditions. 
White cement has an important use in road barriers, where 
the white colour increases visibility. This is especially 
significant under wet conditions; where grey concrete road 
barriers will appear almost black (see picture below).  
Painting grey road barriers white is not a safe option, as the 
Concrete road barriers based on grey and white cement,  paint will wear off and frequent repainting (which rarely 
respectively, illustrating the visibility advantage of white 
happens) is necessary. 
concrete under wet conditions.
Another benefit of using white cement products is in 
tunnels. White cement plaster or panels will reduce the 
need for artificial lighting, reducing the need for electricity 
for this purpose.  
The constant investment in production facilities and high-
quality raw materials has helped the Group to reach its 
current position as global leader in white cement. The 
production facilities of the Cementir Group benefit from 
Grey concrete road barriers painted white. Illustrates the  being  located  close  to  major  sources  of  high-purity 
safety hazard and additional costs needed for repainting 
the road barriers. limestone and other key raw materials that are essential 
for production of white cement. 
The characteristics of the Group’s sites make it possible to 
produce cement with consistent chemical properties, a 
uniform white colour and high mechanical performance. 
In addition to the consistency and high performance of its 
products, the Cementir Group supports its partners by 
providing them with value-added services along the supply 
chain, broad technical support, customer assistance and 
potential collaboration for the development of new white 
Application of white cement-based panels reduces need 
for lighting in underground tunnel. cement applications. 
In the current business plan, the Group’s management team has clearly identified the need to strengthen its 
leadership position and further develop white cement as a key strategic 
pillar, building a competitive position that is unique in its global reach. 
Due to its direct presence on key markets, Cementir benefits from a 
diversified customer base in terms of size, business, culture, tradition 
and technological level.  
 
 
GREY CEMENT  
Cementir Holding produces and distributes all types of grey cement, 
which are classified by type (based on the composition of clinker and 
other substances such as blast furnace slag, microsilica, pozzolana, 
ash, calcined shales, limestones and secondary constituents) and by 
class based on mechanical resistance to compression. There is a 
focus on the production of cements with a low tricalcium aluminate 
content, high granulated blast furnace slag and pozzolana content, 
which are characterised by high sulphate resistance, low hydration 
heat and resistance to rainwater.
29