1 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 
THE CEMENTIR GROUP
THE ‘IN WHITE’ PROJECT    
  Cementir Group has 
The Group aims to differentiate its value proposition on white 
created InWhite,  
cement  at  a  global  level,  redefining  and  developing 
a global innovation  
sustainable solutions that will support the growth of its 
customers’ business through personalised services, know- engine for white cement 
how sharing, consulting and strategic partnership. Cementir 
wants to challenge the traditional way of seeing white cement mainly as an aesthetic and architectural 
material, by assessing macro social trends especially in the construction sector and working to fully 
understand the demands and opinions of customers and the work they need to carry out.  
There is an untapped potential to further develop customer activity in the use of white cement which, as the 
global leader, Cementir must offer to its partners. 
Cementir Group has created InWhite, a global innovation engine for white cement, aimed at generating a 
prioritised and actionable pipeline of high potential customer value propositions, providing new solutions for 
completely new or known applications of white-cement products. These activities are highly linked to the 
megatrends in our society, such as mass customisation, circular economy, high energy efficiency, etc.  
InWhite benefits from the Group’s global and local presence, with close connection to its customers and the 
markets in which they operate, both on the established and emerging applications of white cement, and on 
the technical know-how of its internationally renowned Research and Quality Centre in Aalborg, Denmark.  
The group has registered the Aalborg InWhite Solution™ trademark as a commercial platform to promote 
high value-added, exclusive, technologically-advanced products. 
 
 
ENHANCING AALBORG WHITE APPLICATIONS WITH EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES 
Some emerging but rapidly expanding applications for AALBORG WHITE® cement, due to its chemical purity 
and excellent mechanical properties, are concrete products manufactured with advanced production 
technologies such as UHPC (ultra-high-performance concrete) and GRC (glassfibre reinforced concrete).  
These  technologies  fully  enable  our 
customers to develop and adapt their 
production  according  to  emerging 
trends in society, including:  
• a low specific weight per m2; 
• reduced  thickness  to  enable 
more efficient use of the interior 
spaces of the building; 
• surfaces produced in a single 
process  in  order  to  avoid 
additional treatments; 
• modular and combinable to allow 
the reuse of materials. 
New solutions based on high value 
and  fast-developing  technologies   
like UHPC (ultra-high-performance 
concrete), GRC (glassfibre reinforced 
concrete) and 3D-printed concrete 
have  been  identified  and  are  in 
Louisiana sports hall, United States,  Louisiana
  
primary focus in the coming years.
31