DEVELOPMENT OF UHPC (ULTRA HIGH PERFORMANCE CONCRETE) 
When talking about UHPC, attention is readily placed on the potential of the material to achieve very high compressive 
strength. As a concrete material belonging to the nanotechnology family, UHPC is composed of homogeneous, high 
strength and reduced diameter aggregates compared to conventional concrete, cement and an exquisite selection 
of different fine powders, some of the them reactive when combined with cement, all of them filling with high precision 
the gaps in between each other to maximise the relative content of solids. The latest-generation admixtures are 
used in the production of UHPC to achieve a fluid concrete with self-compacting properties at very low additions of 
water (very low water to binder ratio), whilst still maintaining a very high strength potential.  
However, UHPC is much more than only a high strength material. The product has extremely high durability 
due to its high density and low porosity structure, minimising the ingress rate of deleterious substances into 
the concrete, and the action of degrading mechanisms such as freeze/thaw. As an enormous advantage to 
the finished product, the high density and low porosity translates directly into outstanding aesthetic durability 
of the finished surface - it becomes increasingly difficult for dirt and dust to settle on microscopic porosity 
defects of the surface, and effectively reduces algae growth on the surface. 
The full sustainable design potential for the use of UHPC will come from other performance parameters than 
those directly related to its compressive strength, such as the ability to safely reduce the amount of the concrete 
cover assigned to protect the reinforcing steel from corrosion, and the ability to reduce, or even replace, the 
conventional reinforcing steel by adding ductile behaviour in the way of proper selection of intermixed fibres. 
Ultimately, all the aforementioned advantages of UHPC are based on the assumption that what can be designed, 
mixed and manufactured in small specimens under laboratory conditions also is transferable to the conditions 
applicable to a full-scale production facility, where completely new requirements become decisive for the quality 
of the UHPC placed in the final structure/element. A couple of examples hereof are, ensuring a proper open 
time of the fluid UHPC mix to enable a controlled casting operation, and minimising shrinkage of the UHPC 
potentially leading to cracks through, on one side, proper selections of component’s chemistry and particle size. 
There are certainly many manufacturers “out there” that master the discipline of manufacturing high quality 
UHPC end products. However, this has required, among many others, an extensive investment and 
commitment to develop and document the properties of workable UHPC mixes, building up suitable quality-
control systems, know-how, casting techniques, etc. Such challenges may seem a substantial mouthful to 
other manufacturers wanting to explore the possibilities of such a unique material.  
Aalborg ExtremeTM Light 120, the first commercial product launched under the InWhite Solution umbrella at 
the end of 2018, has been developed to provide a safe and reliable solution for the manufacture of UHPC 
products, designed to successfully match the requirements of industrial manufacturers, whilst still offering 
customisation possibilities in terms of colouring, starting from its white colour, and further permitting a 
customised selection of fibre type and dosage. The robust UHPC mix has high viscosity, but excellent, high 
flow properties with an open time suited to industrial use. 
By the end of 2019, a new formulation, Aalborg ExcelTM, primarily targeted the aesthetic applications and 
offering even further improved flow properties and enabling the finest surface finishing quality, has been 
commercialised by the Group.  
 
 
SUPPORTING GRC (GLASS-FIBRE REINFORCED CONCRETE) 
Glassfibre reinforced concrete is one of the most versatile building materials available to architects and 
engineers. It is mainly composed of glass fibres, cement, sand and special alkali resistant (AR) fibres; GRC is 
a thin compound (up to 10-15 mm) that is very strong and environmentally friendly and has many construction 
applications. Its flexibility means it can meet performance, appearance and cost parameters. 
The technology was developed in the 1970s. However, the general lack of attention to the architectural value 
32