FUTURECEM™ Technology
 
Cementir Group believes that the key to reducing the CO2 footprint of cement production is 
found in Cementir’s FUTURECEM™ technology. FUTURECEM ™ is a proprietary technology 
patented in the US, Canada, Mexico, Europe, India, China and Australia, and relies on the 
synergy between calcined clay and limestone filler which allows for more than 40% clinker 
replacement in cement, whilst keeping the same performance of CEM I Portland cement. 
FUTURECEM™ cements are sustainable and account for a potential 30% CO2 reduction in 
CO2 emissions, and the raw materials used for the production are largely available on Earth. 
Alice Smith Elementary School,  
FUTURECEM™ technology is fully acknowledged as a solution for clinker ratio reduction 
Malesia, Kuala Lumpur
in the roadmap for “Low Carbon transition in the cement industry” by International Energy 
Agency - 2018. 
An important achievement in 2019 was the conclusion of the Danish “Green Concrete II” (Green Transformation of 
Cement and Concrete Production) project: the whole value chain of construction, as well as universities and research 
institutes have been involved. In the project, cement based on FUTURECEM™ as well as new resource saving concrete 
recipes were developed and tested. Testing in full-scale structures documented excellent fresh concrete performance 
and suitability for industrialisation as well as good durability. Life-cycle analyses were performed to document up to 
30% CO2 reduction, compared to conventional concrete. 
As part of the Group innovation process, FUTURECEM™ technology will enhance our offering with value adding, 
innovative cements, pursuing the ambitious path of our company towards sustainability. Complying with our customer-
centric approach, specific product development activities have been launched across regions to match the requirements 
of our customers in different applications. Furthermore, this technology is a fundamental component of the Group’s 
special premixes marketed under the InWhite SolutionTM umbrella.  
FUTURECEM™ technology will contribute largely to the Group’s goal of reducing CO2 emissions by an average 30% per 
ton of cement by 2030. 
CUSTOMER MANAGEMENT  
 
TOWARDS DIRECT RELATIONSHIP-BUILDING 
There is clear evidence of the Group acting locally whilst remaining global- a distinctive feature of the Cementir 
approach sustaining the so-called “glocal” corporate strategy. 
The Group has developed its own more direct, 
closer and more “local” business model, to 
Aalborg Portland cement tankers, Denmark
improve  customer  support  and 
understanding of their needs, and to build 
relationships so that the Group can better 
understand needs, business opportunities 
and innovation. The Group continues to grow 
internationally  but  remains  focused  on 
individual  customer  needs  in  local  and 
regional markets around the world. 
The  strategic  intention  of  having  direct 
engagement  with  customers  is  well 
established in Europe and in most of the 
national markets in other regions (including 
Egypt, China, Australia, Malaysia), where the 
Group  is  working  and  partnering  with 
industrial customers.  
Proximity and a synergistic approach - aimed 
at  managing  customers  through  various 
coordinated  contact  points  (sales  and 
34