THE SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE SYSTEM 
 
BOARDS OF DIRECTORS
• Advice the Board of Directors about   • Implementation in Group Industrial
   strategy, targets, and focus areas SUSTAINABILITY GROUP MANAGEMENT     Plan
COMMITTEE TEAM
• Coordinating sustainability • Regional Sustainability Strategy
    across the Group
• Implementation in Regional
• Support and draft proposals for the    REGIONAL MANAGEMENT     Industrial Plan
   Sustainability Committee SUSTAINABILITY • Monitoring of KPI on regional
• Develop a Group Sustainability  DEPARTMENT     level and reporting to the
    Strategy     Sustainability Department
• Reporting on Group Level
• Monitoring of KPI
• BU Sustainability Strategy
SUSTAINABILITY BUSINESS UNITS • Implementation in BU Industrial 
   Plan
CORE GROUP
• Monitoring of KPI and reporting
   to Regional Management
Every area, function and employee, from the top of the management chain to workers in plants around the 
world are involved in the implementation of proper sustainability practices. 
Several entities within the Group, primarily those reported in the picture, help direct a disciplined approach to 
sustainability management. 
Due to increasing relevance of sustainability related issues and sensibility of the Group, in 2019, a specific 
Group Sustainability Committee (GSC) has been established, dedicated to the Group’s initiatives and 
engagement in this field and with responsibilities detailed in the related Charter.  
The GSC is composed of the Group Chairman and CEO, the Group COO and a series of managerial figures 
belonging to both the Holding company and operating units, who ensure the coordination and adequate 
implementation of the sustainability strategy within the Group. 
The Committee’s purpose is:  
I.   to assist and advise the Board in its oversight of the Group’s policies, programmes and related risks, 
however they might concern sustainability matters;  
II.  to act under authority delegated by the Board with respect to setting out, monitoring, evaluating and 
reporting on policies and practices, management standards, strategy, performance and governance, 
relating to global and local sustainability matters, involving the Group;  
III. to regularly interface with the Sustainability Department and the Group Management Team (GMT) to 
respectively collect any required information and provide requested insights and advice. The GMT composed 
of the Group COO, CFO, HR and Head of Regions, supports the Group CEO’s decisions on relevant topics, 
defines operating guidelines and plays a vital role in ensuring that sustainability efforts are aligned with 
economic and business objectives; 
IV. to provide regular reporting to the Board. 
The Group Sustainability Committee meets at least quarterly undertaking any responsibilities or tasks within 
sustainability matters with the main task of developing a Group Sustainability Strategy. Ownership of the Group 
strategy remains with the Board of the Group parent company, setting the overall strategy, approving the 
performance objectives and goals for the Group and the yearly Group NFS. 
The Board of the parent company defines the guidelines of the risk management system, so that the main risks 
concerning the whole Group are correctly identified and adequately measured, managed and monitored, 
determining, moreover, the level of compatibility of such risks with the management of the company in a manner 
consistent with its strategic objectives. In addition, the Board of the parent Company, with the support of the Audit 
40