availing of the Audit Committee, which performs a preliminary 
analysis with reference to the related evaluations and decisions. 
The Ethics Committee has the responsibility to ensure that the 
activities are conducted according to the ethical principles 
provided by the Code of Ethics. Moreover, it monitors the 
reports received relating to Code of Ethics violations, regarding 
which it receives periodical information from the Internal Audit 
Department, and it can request further analysis or specific 
checks, if necessary. 
The group management team bears primary responsibility for the 
internal control and risk management activities and the second level 
control functions support the management in the definition of adequate risk management systems and related 
controls according their competencies (i.e. EHS, anti-corruption, anti-trust, privacy, etc.). 
Lastly, the Internal Audit Department has the responsibility for carrying out independent assurance activities 
on the Internal Control and Risk Management System, verifying the related adequacy in relation to the Group 
size and operating activities and ensuring the definition and implementation of adequate mitigation actions 
from the management. 
In 2019 the risk assessment activity, carried out with the above-described criteria, identified a list of risks that 
the Group will have to face in the near future with actions that have been incorporated into the Industrial Plan. 
Among other things, the main Sustainability risks are related to:  
• the potential shortage of some raw materials (mainly slag, fly ash and natural gypsum), necessary to produce 
specific types of cement and concrete;  
• any limit and/or complexity in the implementation of the long-term actions defined in the sustainability 
strategy at Group level, due to changes in the economic context and to the introduction of new technologies; 
• changes in the regulatory context, in terms of sustainability, in a restrictive sense;  
• the environmental aspects, mainly regarding the Group companies with plants close to residential areas; 
  
• the necessity to manage growing complexity in terms of product portfolio, quality controls, resources.
 
 
INTEGRITY AND COMPETITION 
 
The Cementir Group sees integrity and competition as fundamental principles, especially in view of the specific 
risks that characterise the cement and ready-mixed concrete production sector. The Group’s Code of Ethics is the 
reference document that sets out the rules of conduct that everyone at the Group and who works with it must follow. 
Alongside the Code of Ethics, within the individual regions, specific programmes and procedures have been 
adopted to ensure that these risks are mitigated and that companies operate correctly. Training programmes 
are conducted periodically, organised by the Group to maintain a constantly high level of focus on this matter. 
 
 
THE CODE OF ETHICS
 
Cementir Holding has adopted a Code of Ethics3 endorsing the business principles that all company officers 
and employees, and anyone working with the company in any capacity, are required to comply with, in pursuing 
company business. The Code, which has been distributed to all staff and is available for consultation on the 
website www.cementirholding.com, covers respect for ethical and behavioural principles, and the protection 
of health, safety and the environment. 
3 To download the document, use the following link: https://www.cementirholding.com/sites/default/files/documenti/2019-11/11291.pdf 
42