1 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 
THE CEMENTIR GROUP
The Code of Ethics also provides that the Group’s operations must compete on the market in accordance with 
the law and regulations of the relevant countries, in a spirit of integrity, propriety and confidentiality. To achieve 
this goal, the Cementir Group requires its employees to adhere to the highest standards of conduct in business, 
as set out in the Code and in the procedures to which it refers. The Group protects employees if they report 
violations of the Code and applies fair and proportional sanctions equally to all categories of employees, in 
accordance with the laws, contracts and domestic regulations applicable in the various jurisdictions. 
In order to monitor the continued compliance with the Code of Ethics by those 
employed by the Company and its subsidiaries and uphold the applicable 
regulations, the Board of Directors established an Ethics Committee. 
The Ethics Committee:    
• monitors dissemination of the Code and suggests possible training and 
informational initiatives;  
• reports to the Board of Directors on the status of the process of implementing 
the Code, describing the programmes and initiatives undertaken to achieve the 
company’s goals, any changes required to ensure its effectiveness and about 
updates to the Code including in response to legal developments;  
• provides support with the interpretation of the Code;  
• verifies violations; 
• follows up on any reports of infringements;  
• is also addressed the periodic information report on whistleblowing. 
A whistleblowing system has been in place since 2013, which can be used to report breaches of the principles 
and rules set out in the Code of Ethics and the policies adopted by the Group, or simply to report non-
compliance with laws and regulations.  
Employees or third parties (suppliers, customers or other stakeholders) can send, with the maximum 
guarantee of confidentiality, reports of illegal or undesirable behaviour by filling in the form at the bottom of 
this page, by sending a letter or email or by calling the dedicated hotline. 
Cementir Holding’s internal audit team receives the reports, analyses them and performs the audits. The 
results and any potential actions are assessed by the Ethics Committee. The relevant people and functions 
will be notified of any violations. 
The Cementir Audit Committee is periodically updated on the status of the allegations. 
In 2019, 13 alleged violations were received. All those allegations were investigated. For the violations confirmed, 
the disciplinary measures taken are proportionate to the seriousness of the case and comply with local legislation.  
 
 
COMMITMENT TO FIGHT CORRUPTION
 
The Cementir Group is active in the fight against corruption. In its Code of Ethics it expressly prohibits “Bribes, 
illegitimate favours, collusion, requests, directly and/or through third parties, for personal or career benefits for 
oneself or for others”. 
Since 2015 the company has stepped up its efforts to combat corruption through a written policy that defines 
roles, responsibilities, operating methods and behavioural rules. All Group companies, employees and 
everyone acting in the name and on behalf of subsidiaries must comply with this collection of behavioural 
rules in the performance of their responsibilities. Disciplinary measures, sanctions and other consequences 
also apply in the case of non-compliance with the policy. 
The main objective of the policy is to provide a consistent approach to the fight against corruption throughout 
the Group, in order to ensure that companies operate according to Group values, so as to preserve the 
reputation of individual companies and ensure compliance with applicable laws. 
43