A compliance programme on corruption laws and in particular the UK Bribery Act was established during 
2016. As well as covering the anti-corruption policy, the programme also sets out a procedure regulating gifts 
and hospitality, an assessment of corruption risk, due diligence on third parties and on training and education 
plan. The programme was rolled out beginning with the subsidiaries in Turkey in 2016 and extended during 
2017 to various group companies, including Aalborg Portland Anqing, Aalborg Portland Malaysia, Sinai White 
Cement and CCB. In 2018 the project was implemented in the Nordic and Baltic region. 
 
 
COMMITMENT IN HUMAN RIGHTS 
 
Respect for human rights is a basic tenant of Cementir’s beliefs and is consistent with its values and goals to 
be a more economically, socially and environmentally sustainable Group. The Cementir Human Rights Policy 
aims at supporting and guiding the management and employees to achieve these goals. 
Cementir endorses the principles set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International 
Labour Organization (ILO) based on respect for the dignity of the 
In 2019 the Internal  
individual without distinction of any kind. 
Cementir’s Human Rights Policy applies the founding principles of:  Audit defined  
• the United Nations International Charter of Human Rights (UN): 
a human rights  
• Universal Declaration of Human Rights; 
self-assessment  
• International Convention on Civil and Political Rights; 
• International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights;  checklist as part  
• the  fundamental  conventions  of  the  International  Labor  of the standard internal 
Organization (ILO) - n. 29, 87, 98, 100, 105, 111, 138, 182 - and the 
audit process 
declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work; 
• the UN Convention on the Rights of Children; 
• the ILO Conventions n.107 and n.169 on the Rights of Indigenous and Tribal Populations; 
• the European Convention on Human Rights. 
As part of Cementir’s initiative to internally identify and mitigate any risks related to human rights, in 2019 the 
Internal  Audit  defined  a  human  rights  self-
assessment checklist as part of the standard internal 
audit process. Starting from 2020, any audit work 
programme  will  include  the  human  rights  self-
assessment. In the next 3 years the aforementioned 
checklist  will  be  applied  to  all  major  Cementir 
companies. The self-assessment covers the following 
areas: child labour and young workers, forced labour, 
discrimination, employee working conditions, security 
and supply chain management. 
Any alleged human rights violations can be reported 
through the whistleblowing system, in line with all 
other types of potential violations.
44