1 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 
THE CEMENTIR GROUP
CEMENTIR HOLDING ANTITRUST PROGRAM
 
The corporate culture and basic principles, to which the Group management attaches great importance and 
which have always characterised the development activities of the Company and of the Cementir Group in its 
entirety, are: the firm belief that a competitive market is a key value not only for customers but for the healthy 
growth of the Group business itself; the commitment to have people from all over the Group operate 
independently from competitors, relying only on their own skills and expertise, on coordination with the rest 
of the Group and on the high quality of the Group’s products.  
These values are spread by the affiliates in the various geographical areas where they operate, by adopting 
consistent, localised antitrust compliance programmes, directed to all employees and executives, informing 
them about the underlying values, the basic principles of competition law and the specific regulations 
applicable to their activities, also through specific training events on the subject. 
The antitrust compliance programmes adopted locally focus on issuing specific policies, monitoring their 
application through regular audit procedures, to ensure constant adequacy and correct implementation, as 
well as on updating the programme itself, wherever necessary in order to take into account any regulatory 
and/or legal developments.  
Under each competition compliance programme, all relevant actions and transactions of the company are 
monitored and their compliance with competition law requirements and practices duly scrutinised.  
Distribution and sales contract templates are made available to the employees concerned and regular checks 
are made to ensure their constant alignment with competition rules and pricing policies. 
Furthermore, specific courses are administered to newcomers, targeting those joining the sales department. 
 
 
RELEVANT LITIGATION
 
A dispute is pending between the Turkish stock exchange’s regulatory, supervisory body (Capital Market Board - 
CMB) and the Turkish company Çimentaş AS, an indirect subsidiary of Cementir Holding, over the intragroup 
sale price of an equity investment in 2009, in which the CMB called on Çimentaş AS to demand that Cementir 
Holding and any other companies involved in the Cementir Group pay back around 100 million Turkish lira 
(now around EUR 16 million). The request for a suspension of the decision challenged by Çimentaş, accepted 
by Ankara Administrative Court on 26 May 2015, was subsequently rejected by Ankara Regional Administrative 
Court on 6 August 2015 for entirely procedural reasons. A decision on the action for dismissal brought by 
Çimentaş AS against CMB was accepted by Ankara Administrative Court on 09 November 2018, which 
cancelled the CMB decision (not on the merits but on the precise quantification of the amount due). The dispute 
is still pending before the Appeal Court. On 29 January 2017, CMB served a summons to Cementir Holding to 
appear before the Court of İzmir, requesting that the company be ordered to pay Çimentaş AS an amount 
provisionally set at approximately 1 million Turkish lira. Cementir Holding duly filed a defence case, arguing 
the total groundlessness of the plaintiff’s argument, both procedurally and on the merits, and in any case 
requesting the suspension of the civil case until the administrative action is settled. In the unlikely event that 
this administrative action is rejected, the issue would in any case solely be relevant between companies in the 
Cementir Group. 
The main reason presented by Çimentaş AS for disputing the request made by CMB is related to the fiscal 
dispute entered into for the same transaction. Çimentaş AS had won at first level and, on appeal, the tax 
authority, on 15 November 2018, confirmed the decision of the first level body, with presumable positive effects 
on the civil dispute with CMB.
45