2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 
THE 4 PILLARS
RISK ANALYSIS AND POLICIES ADOPTED
 
Price volatility in traditional fuel markets - combined with the theoretical risk of unavailability of these fuels 
and the need to reach increasingly stringent emissions targets - is the main risk that the Group sees with 
regard to energy supply. In view of this risk, companies with high energy needs such as those operating in the 
cement production sector, are driven to adapt their production cycle to more sustainable business models.  
The depletion of resources is not just a risk for the supply of fuels for the production process, but also with 
respect to the use of non-renewable raw materials such as limestone, clay and aggregates used as input 
materials in cement production.  
The Cementir Group is a pioneer in the use of raw materials and alternative fuels originating from urban and 
industrial waste and by-products, within the limits set by laws and technical regulations on the production of 
cement and ready-mixed concrete.  
This circular economy approach allows resources to remain in use for longer periods, extracting maximum 
value from them. In addition, reuse and recycling contribute to environmental footprint reduction by helping 
to improve sustainability within the cement value chain. 
 
 
USE OF ALTERNATIVE FUELS 
The thermal energy produced at Cementir Group plants is generated by the combustion of fossil fuels (fuel 
oil, petroleum coke, coal, natural gas) and, in part, by alternative fuels.  
The reduced consumption of non-renewable fossil fuels and the resulting increased use of alternative fuels 
is a primary aim for reducing environmental impact, particularly associated with emissions.  
By 2030, the Group will increase the proportion of alternative fuels in the fuel mix to 77% to produce grey 
cement and 6% for white cement. Concerning white cement, the demand for consistency of colour is much 
higher than with grey as no nuances of white or coloured surfaces can be accepted. For this reason, the use 
of alternative fuels is drastically limited in the production of white cement.  
The aforementioned targets have been differentiated per each plant and mid-term targets have been defined 
for 2022, 2025 and 2030.
     
23.5%  11.8%  100,520  
alternative   alternative   tons  
fuel  raw materials  Refuse-Derived Fuel (RDF) 
Used for thermal energy  Used in the mix for   and Solid Recovered Fuel (SRF) 
production in place of   cement production generated by Group waste 
non-renewable fossil fuels treatment facilities in 2019
4499