2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 
THE 4 PILLARS
MANAGING QUARRYING ACTIVITIES
 
The important aspects in the management of quarrying are its impact on the ecosystem, the efficient use of 
resources and soil, noise control, the control of dust and the consumption of water resources used for washing 
materials. The Group policy is to minimise the impact of these aspects through sophisticated engineering 
techniques and the ongoing involvement of the authorities and stakeholders of local communities. Activities are 
organised according to the various countries’ regional characteristics. Biodiversity rehabilitation and recovery 
programmes are planned for all sites due for closure; for quarry sites located in the areas of greatest 
importance for wildlife, these are approved and undersigned by the competent authorities before activities start.   
 
 
LIFE IN QUARRIES PROJECT10
 
Operating a quarry leads to the creation of temporary or permanent environments which have become rare in 
Belgium, such as cliffs, rocky or sandy surfaces, landslides, temporary stretches of water, chalk grasslands or 
sparse meadows. These habitats, generated by mining activity, can be of considerable interest from an ecosystem 
point of view as they enable the appearance and development of populations of pioneer species with a high 
biological value. Quarries can play a fundamental role in regulating green infrastructure in landscapes. In 
particular, when they are located in areas near urban centres, they can constitute important green corridors that 
animal species can use as transition zones (especially in the case of migratory species). 
The objective of the Life in Quarries project is to develop a methodology that makes it possible to optimise the 
biodiversity hosting capacity of quarries in Belgium. The project aims to implement biodiversity management 
measures during quarrying through dynamic management, and to rehabilitate the quarry at the end of extraction 
in order to stabilise the habitat. 
The Life in Quarries project is led by FEDIEX, the Belgian Mining Industry Federation, in collaboration with the 
Department of Nature and Forests of the Walloon Region, the University of Liège - Gembloux Agro-Bio Tech, the 
Natagora Association and the Pianure de l’Escaut Natural Park. 
It is funded by the European Commission (56%) through the Life programme, the Walloon Region (20%), the 
quarry sector (21%) and partners (3%), with a total budget of EUR 5 million. The co-financing is essential for the 
implementation of the various actions spread over 4 years and several quarry sites involved in the project, 
including the CCB sites in Guarain (cement production plant and quarry) and Clypot (quarry).
Aggregate quarry Gaurain, Belgium
10 http://www.lifeinquarries.eu/en/project 
55