SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 
We will reduce CO2 emissions per ton of cement of about 30% by 2030. The target will be achieved through 
greater use of alternative fuels (77% of the total to produce grey cement within 2030) and renewable resources, 
reduction of thermal consumption and the clinker ratio of cements. A pivotal role in CO2 reduction will be 
played by FUTURECEMTM- our proprietary technology internally developed and worldwide patented - which 
allows over than 40% clinker replacement in cement. 
Cutting our CO2 emissions is a priority of Cementir Group, but clearly, we cannot achieve a carbon neutral 
future alone. For this reason, at the end of 2019, we accepted an additional challenge: support the Danish 
Government in the most ambitious CO2 reduction project ever sponsored by a nation, providing our expertise 
and technology. In the Autumn 2019, the Danish government adopted a new binding climate law with the target 
of reducing the Danish CO2-emissions of 70% by 2030. In December 2019, the Danish Prime Minister appointed 
the Managing Director of Aalborg Portland as head for the climate partnership for the Danish energy intensive 
industry. This Climate partnership, led by Aalborg Portland and composed by the main refining, chemicals 
and food Danish companies will provide to the Danish Government the technical forecast of all achievable CO2 
reductions and will define the prerequisites for such reductions (in terms of policy, research, innovation, 
subsidies etc.). 
Our efforts are also spread through other fundamentals areas, to promote circular economy and preserve the 
natural resources. In 2019, the 65% of the water consumed in our cement plants was recycled in the production 
process and our Group’s treatment plants in UK and Turkey produced 100,000 tons of alternative fuels from 
waste and recycled almost 7,000 tons of garbage. 
Within 2030, all our operating companies related to cement production, concrete production and waste 
management will operate with a certified environmental system (ISO 14001), energy system (ISO 50001) and 
health and safety system (ISO 45001). Safety serves as the basis for earnestly undertaking production process 
and represents the starting point of all our activities. This is why we continue to invest resources to provide all 
the tools and professional training required to create a strong safety culture and to pursue the long-term 
object of “zero accidents”. 
To accomplish the mentioned targets, according to the Industrial Plan 2020 - 2022, we will spend 100 million 
euros for green investments that include, among others: 
• construction of an 8 MW wind farm for the needs of Aalborg plant; 
• waste heat recovery in our Danish and Turkish plants; 
• expansion of district heating to 50,000 families in Aalborg; 
• increase in the use of alternative fuels from current 40% to 80% in Belgium. 
I would like to stress that investing in our people is one of the pillars on which the future of our company is based. 
The 30% of new or vacant position are covered with internal successors. Talent management is the key factor to 
identify the top team for the future of our Group. Group Academy, Leadership programs and international mobility 
support the people to growth in a multicultural environment where the integration and inclusion are values 
embedded in the whole organization. An example is represented by “Your Voice”, survey launched in 2019 to 
measure the level of engagement of our personnel across the Group that obtain a participation of more than 
80%. According to the results of the Survey, specific action plans have been defined at global and local levels. 
5