the voluntary participation of our employees across the organization. Global, Regional and BU level actions plans 
have been defined and will be implemented and followed up during 2020 - 2021, with the sponsorship of Global 
Senior Management Team.  
 
 
TALENT REVIEW AND SUCCESSION PLANS FOR GROUP KEY POSITIONS 
In 2019 a Group Talent Review was conducted with the aim of obtaining an overview on the quality of the Group 
management team in terms of performance trend and potential/readiness to step up into higher or more complex 
roles. The process also allowed us to identify a pool of emerging talents with 
good performance and potential to succeed in leadership/coordination roles 
and to be mapped as mid and long-term successors.  
In 2019, 23% of personnel involved in the Group Talent Programme were female 
and 16% of successors to key positions were female (double with respect to 
2018). Moreover, in 2019, 30% of new/vacant key positions were filled by internal 
successors. 
Work on the Group Succession Planning process for critical positions continued 
Employees, Rome, Italy
to build a strong leadership bench. The list of critical positions has been reviewed 
and enlarged according to the Industrial Plan and the main strategic goals. A further 
measurement of the results obtained by mapping internal successors highlighted the improvement of some KPIs 
with a mitigation of the potential risk of business discontinuity and led to some personnel development decisions 
(e.g. Group leadership development programmes, changes in management and international mobility programmes). 
 
 
TALENT ACQUISITION 
Concerning Talent Acquisition and assessment processes, we involved selected experienced HRs at central and local 
level in the Training Programme “Assessment Academy”, aimed at acquiring specific skills and abilities to be handled 
with psychometric tools - adopted at Group level - and assessment techniques, in order to neutralise cognitive biases 
and make better decisions both for external hiring and internal promotions.  
With regard to employer branding, we redesigned and implemented a new Company website with a new section dedicated 
to “people”, which aims at making our culture, organisation and employees more visible and at attracting talented people.  
 
 
PEOPLE EVALUATION AND DEVELOPMENT 
The OSTA (Organisation and Skills Team Assessment) was applied to all cement plants with a twofold objective:  
• detecting deviations and aligning local organisational structures to the Group standard model; 
• evaluating people’s technical skills, role-related competencies, individual engagement and retention risk in order 
to identify strengths and improvement areas and to draw up specific action plans.  
The OSTA framework (mapping of roles, job-related technical skills at the expected levels and core competencies) 
was extended to the rest of the professional families, to gather all relevant data with a view to incorporate this process 
into the new Group Performance Management System.  
In 2019 we also started working on the design of a Group Performance Management System for all office workers to 
be launched within the Group by 2020. This will enable us to monitor and align employees’ objectives, skills, 
competencies and development plans with our Group strategic objectives. The design was driven by the intent to develop 
a new way of looking at performance evaluation not only as a tool for aligning people with business strategy but also as 
a process that can stimulate constant development of organisational and people skills as well as competencies.  
In 2019, personnel involved in local performance evaluation processes remained the same as in previous years. 
70