 
We support our communities
We create value for local communities, listening to their needs and concerns and basing 
our relationships with them on transparency and accountability.
RISK ANALYSIS AND POLICIES ADOPTED 
The Cementir Group is looking for technical solutions that reduce its environmental impact and balance the interests 
of the company with those of local communities. The Group has identified the risk that the companies’ activities, in 
particular those related to concrete production and waste treatment, may lead to critical and/or contrary attitudes 
from local communities and local stakeholders, resulting in a deterioration of the company’s image. 
The actions to mitigate this risk, particularly present in Turkey, involve communication at a local level, organising 
community meetings with feedback sessions, stakeholder analyses and the definition of a communication plan. 
For this reason, dialogue with the institutions, communities and associations affected by plant operations is 
essential for the continuity and preservation of the business. 
The company maintains relationships with opinion groups, trade unions and institutions at all levels, and has set up 
communication channels to deal with any claims or complaints from the local community. 
This aspect becomes even more relevant where increased urbanisation has brought towns closer to the Group’s 
plants, particularly in Turkey. For this reason, specific tools have been adopted in the East Mediterranean region to 
map the stakeholders that should be involved in defining actions to be implemented and in communicating important 
aspects regarding the plants’ operations. These tools also enable companies in the region in analysing stakeholders’ 
complaints, in order to provide the necessary information or to plan, specifically focused actions. 
 
 
DIALOGUE AND SUPPORT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES 
Against this backdrop, the most debated topics with local stakeholders in 2019 mainly 
concerned permits for the use of quarries and the introduction of alternative fuels, 
the streamlining and, where possible, the reduction of incoming and outgoing traffic 
transporting raw materials and fuel to the plants, dust levels and polluting emissions. 
Regarding members of the community we focused, in some cases, in organising 
meetings with groups of residents in order to provide them with detailed information 
on the work and operations taking place at Group sites. 
The Elazığ and İzmir plants’ proximity to residential areas involves a constant dialogue 
Ready-mixed concrete 
with the local communities, which are particularly sensitive to the plants’ landscape 
plant Bruxelles, Belgium
and visual impact. To face these specific aspects, Çimentaş is adopting specific 
strategies of involvement and communication with stakeholders interested in the 
issue. Another aspect that is particularly felt in Turkey is the collection and recycling of waste, since there is 
no in-depth knowledge of waste management processes and the local community perceives some activities 
as risky. Precisely for this reason, the Group companies operating in this industry have decided to define a 
specific engagement and communication plan aimed at stakeholders. This plan entails involving opinion 
leaders, experts and members of the community in regular meetings, the use of multimedia channels and 
digital media to provide information on how waste is managed, and meetings and interaction with families 
living near the plants. 
78