Snam Company Profile
Snam is one of the world's leading energy infrastructure operators 
and one of the largest Italian listed companies in terms of 
capitalization. The company’s sustainable and technologically 
advanced network guarantees security of supply, enables energy 
transition and promotes development in the areas in which it 
operates. Through its international subsidiaries, it operates in 
Albania (AGSCo), Austria (TAG, GCA), China (Snam Gas & Energy 
Services Beijing), France (Teréga), Greece (DESFA) and the United 
Kingdom (Interconnector UK). Snam is also one of the main 
shareholders of TAP (Trans Adriatic Pipeline), the final section of 
the Southern Energy Corridor.
The company has the most extensive transmission network among 
European peers (over 41,000 km including international activities) 
and greatest natural gas storage capacity (approx 20 billion cubic 
meters, including international activities). It is also one of the main 
regasification operators in Europe, an activity it carries out through 
its Panigaglia terminal and its stakes in the Livorno (OLT) and 
Rovigo (Adriatic LNG) plants in Italy and in the Revithoussa (DESFA) 
plant in Greece, with a total pro rata regasification capacity of 
around 8.5 billion cubic metres per year.
As part of its €6.5 billion plan that runs to 2023, Snam is investing 
€1.4 billion in the Snam Tec project (Tomorrow’s Energy Company) 
which aims to reduce the environmental impact of its activities 
through innovation (with the aim of a 40% reduction in methane 
emissions by 2025 and direct and indirect CO  emissions by 
2eq
2030) and contributing to decarbonisation through its new 
energy transition businesses: sustainable mobility (distributors 
of compressed natural gas – CNG and bio-CNG – and liquefied 
natural gas – LNG and bio-LNG, Small-scale LNG), biomethane 
infrastructure from organic waste and agricultural and agro-
industrial waste, energy efficiency services for apartment 
buildings, the public administration and industry. Snam was the 
first European company to trial the introduction of hydrogen 
mixed with natural gas into its network.
The corporate business model is based on sustainable growth, 
transparency, the development of talent and diversity and the 
protection and social development of the areas through the Snam 
Foundation.
(*) The acquisition of a 49.07% share of the OLT regasification terminal was completed on 26 February 2020.
  www.snam.it 