BUSINESS ACTIVITIES MANAGEMENT 
Business activities are managed in accordance with the organisational and 
procedural system applied across all Snam Group companies in Italy and abroad, 
The main policies that express Snam's  created to ensure that the system of rules governing the business is clear, simple 
commitment are: and organic.
•  Sustainable development policy In this context, and in line with its business model, Snam adheres to the UN Global 
•  Health, safety and environmental  Compact, the most important international sustainable development initiative, 
protection policy which aims to promote and disseminate ten global ethical principles concerning 
•  Diversity & inclusion policy human rights, environmental protection, workers' rights and anti-corruption. 
•  Corporate Governance guideline These principles come from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the 
•  Enterprise Risk Management  International Labour Organisation Declaration on the fundamental principles and 
guideline rights to work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and, lastly, 
•  Risk Assurance & Integrated  the United Nations Convention against Corruption.
Compliance guideline Of fundamental importance for the smooth operation of the organisational 
•  Snam Group Tax Strategy and Tax  system is the allocation of specific objectives to each position of responsibility 
Cooperative Compliance guideline and on the transparent assessment of results, thereby enabling continual 
•  Stakeholder involvement policy improvements in the effectiveness and efficiency of corporate processes.
•  Human Rights policy
•  Policy for the management of 
philanthropic activities and social  THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
initiatives
•  Anti-corruption guideline The Board of Directors is the central body of the Snam’s corporate governance 
•  Supply chain social policy system and is vested with the broadest powers for the ordinary and extraordinary 
management of the Company. The Board of Directors currently in office, 
appointed by the Shareholders' Meeting of April 2 2019, is composed of nine 
directors who will remain in office for a period of three years. The Board of 
Directors plays a central role in overseeing the company’s commitment to 
sustainable development along the value chain. It is assisted in these tasks by the 
Environmental, Social & Governance Committee (ESG) which, from May 2019, 
replaced and supplemented the Sustainability Committee, in the company since 
2016, which makes proposals to and advises the board on ESG issues in business 
strategies. During the year, the Sustainability Committee met twice and then the 
ESG Committee met six times with a 100% attendance rate.
Changes compared with the previous term
Previous  Current  Average 
term term FTSE MIB
Number of Directors  9 9 12.6**
Directors elected from minorities   3 (33.3%) 3 (33.3%)  2.5 (17%)**
Gender less represented in the Bod   44.4%  33.3% 36.9% *
Independent Directors  56%  66.6%  54.6%**
Average age of Directors  56 54 57**
Non  Non  Non executive 
President Status
executive executive 74%**
Lead Indipendent Director Existence no no 24.3% *
 *  Corporate Governance Committee - 2019 Report on the development of corporate governance of listed 
companies, 7th report on the application of the Code of Corporate Governance. 
**  Assonime - Corporate Governance in Italy: corporate governance, remuneration and comply-or-explain 
(2019), Notes and Studies 2/20. The 2019 survey includes 220 Italian companies, listed as at 31 December 
2018, for which Reports were available at 15 July 2019.
104Sustainability Report 2019