The new corporate 
structure
The main changes in the consolidation scope of Snam Group at 31 December 
2019, compared with 31 December 2018, consisted of the inclusion of the 
following companies: (i) Enura S.p.A. (formerly Asset Company 5 S.r.l.), 55% 
owned by Snam S.p.A., for the construction of the transportation infrastructure 
in Sardinia; (ii) Snam Gas & Energy Services (Beijing) Co. Ltd., with its headquarters 
in China, established in April 2019 and wholly-owned by Snam International 
B.V. to support the development of the gas market in China through the 
unique expertise of Snam in the industry; (iii) Snam 4 Environment (formerly 
Asset Company 6 S.r.l.), wholly-owned by Snam S.p.A., established following 
the acquisition, in November 2019, from Ladurner Ambiente and from AB 
Invest of 82.63% of Renerwaste S.r.l., one of major companies in Italy in biogas 
and biomethane infrastructure, with the consequent gaining of control of 
Renerwaste Lodi S.r.l., Ecoprogetto Milano S.r.l., Ecoprogetto Tortona S.r.l.; (iv) 
TEA Servizi S.r.l., active in the design, realisation and running of thermohydraulic 
and electric plants for industrial customers, with a special focus on small and 
medium-sized businesses, following the acquisition in November 2019 of 100% 
of the share capital, via the wholly-owned company Asset Company 4 S.r.l.. 
Except for Enura, subject to consolidation within the “Natural gas transportation” 
sector, the remaining companies listed above were included in the sector 
“Corporate and other activities”, not subject to separate reporting pursuant to 
international accounting standard IFRS 8 “Operating segments”.
SNAM AND THE ACQUISITIONS IN GREEN BUSINESSES
In recent years, Snam has completed investments for the development of new 
businesses aimed at promoting decarbonisation and the better use of energy, 
specifically in the biomethane sector (IES Biogas, Renerwaste), sustainable 
mobility (Cubogas) and energy efficiency (TEP Energy Solution, TEA Servizi).
Biomethane
IES Biogas 
IES Biogas is Snam's technological   In 2019, IES Biogas was committed to the design and construction in Italy of various 
partner since 2018 for the realisation  plants to produce advanced biomethane, supplied with livestock waste, agro-
and upgrading on biomethane plants  industrial waste and sub-products of agricultural origin and second harvest crops. 
in the agricultural and waste sectors. This development also has a positive effect on the agri-food industry, promoting a 
sustainable economic model and significantly reducing agriculture emissions.
The waste sector has also become increasingly more strategic: thanks to 
managerial skills and consolidated know-how, IES Biogas has upgraded the Waste 
Division engaged in creating two new biomethane plants for motor transport in 
Mantua and Sicily and in the conversion of other existing plants to biomethane. 
Since its establishment in 2008, IES Biogas has constructed over 220 plants, both 
in Italy and abroad.
Renerwaste S.r.l.
In November 2019, through the subsidiary Snam 4 Environment, Snam completed 
the acquisition from Ladurner Ambiente and from AB Invest of a stake of 82.63% 
of Renerwaste S.r.l., one of the largest companies operating in Italy in biogas and 
biomethane infrastructures, for an outlay at the closing, including the repayment 
of the shareholders' loan, of around €46 million. The transaction, entirely funded 
10 Sustainability Report 2019