Methodology note 
INTRODUCTION AND PRESENTATION OF  •  Transportation (Snam Rete Gas S.p.A., Asset Company 2 
THE DOCUMENT S.r.l., Infrastrutture Trasporto Gas S.p.A., Enura S.p.A.);
•  Liquefied Natural Gas regasification (GNL Italia S.p.A.);
The Sustainability Report is an annual document that  •  Storage (Stogit S.p.A.);
Snam has been publishing voluntarily since 2006. Through  •  Sustainable mobility and Biomethane (Snam4Mobility 
this document the Company wishes to inform a wide,  S.p.A., Cubogas S.r.l., IES Biogas S.r.l., Enersi Sicilia S.r.l., 
diversified audience of stakeholders (citizens, institutions,  Snam4Environment S.r.l. and Gruppo Renerwaste);
local communities, the media, shareholders, lenders,  •  Energy efficiency (Asset Company 4 S.r.l., TEP Energy 
employees, suppliers, customers, authorities, etc.) of the  Solution S.r.l. and TEA Servizi S.r.l.).
decisions, activities, results and use of resources as part of 
ESG (Environment, Social and Governance). The Report was  The data in the paragraph “The procurement numbers” 
prepared in conformity with GRI Standards, comprehensive  include the following Group Companies: Snam S.p.A., Snam 
option, with the goal of providing a flexible tool in  Rete Gas S.p.A., GNL Italia S.p.A., Stogit S.p.A. and Snam 4 
communicating the results quickly, providing a concrete and  Mobility S.p.A..
quantitative measure of the information made available. In 
addition, this document also constitutes the Communication  Regarding the environmental aspects reported, the 
On Progress for the Global Compact of the United Nations. companies Snam International BV, Gasrule Insurance DAC, 
Enura SpA, Snam4Environment Srl, Renerwaste Group 
Non-financial data and information are also reported in  (acquired at the end of 2019) and Snam Gas & Energy 
other documents published by the Company, which examine  Service-Beijing are excluded from the consolidation. These 
certain aspects in more detail. Specifically: companies have no significant environmental impact and 
•  The Directors’ Report, included in the Annual Report  weigh on the total workforce of the Group by less than 2%. 
drafted following the instructions of the International  Regarding health and safety aspects, the company Snam Gas 
Integrated Reporting Council; & Energy Service-Beijing is excluded from the consolidation, 
•  The Non-Financial Statement, included in the Directors’  as it also has low relevance on this aspect
Report as a specific chapter, which deals specifically with 
the environmental aspects of health and safety, personnel 
management, anti-corruption and the protection of  REPORTING PROCESS AND METHODS
human rights, in conformity with the requirements of 
Italian Legislative Decree 254/2016;  The process of gathering data and information and 
•  The Report on Corporate Governance and Ownership  preparing the report was coordinated and managed by 
Structures, that describes the governance of the  the Sustainability unit of the parent company, Snam, in 
Company in detail, including aspects relating to  cooperation with the various corporate functions and 
sustainability such as, for example, the composition of the  operating companies. The publication of the document, at 
ESG Committee; the same time as the Annual Report, takes place after the 
•  The Remuneration Report, that describes the  approval of the Snam Board of Directors on 18 March 2020. 
remuneration policies adopted and how they are  The economic and financial, operating and governance data 
integrated with the Group's sustainability goals; was taken directly from the Annual Report and from the 
•  The document “Changes today for the climate  Report on Corporate Governance and Ownership Structure. 
of tomorrow” prepared in accordance with the  Data concerning the environment, employees and the other 
recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related  aspects addressed in the document were gathered from the 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) that describes Snam's  process owners. 
activities with regard to climate change.  The calculation methods used for determining the indicators 
are given in the specific reference paragraphs. To ensure 
the comparability over time of the indicators deemed most 
CONSOLIDATION SCOPE AND CRITERIA significant and to give the reader the chance to compare 
the performance achieved, current values have been placed 
The scope of reference of the information in the Sustainability  alongside those for the previous two years, using graphs and 
Report coincides with the scope of consolidation of the  tables. We have tried within this document to place equal 
Consolidated financial statements and includes:  emphasis on positive and negative aspects, providing, where 
•  Corporate and other activities (Snam S.p.A. with the  deemed appropriate, a comment on the results achieved, 
subsidiaries Gasrule Insurance Limited, Snam International  including the facts and events that the Company was 
BV, Snam Gas & Energy Service-Beijing); involved with in 2019.
118Sustainability Report 2019