through equity, includes the possibility of Snam acquiring the  100% of the share capital of TEA Servizi S.r.l. (TEA), Energy 
remaining 17.37% of the share capital owned by Ecopartner  Service Company (ESCo) active in the design, construction 
from June 2020. Renerwaste with its three plants located,  and running of thermohydraulic and electric plants for 
respectively, in the provinces of Lodi, Milan and Tortona,  industrial customers, with a special focus on small and 
generates annual revenues of more than €20 million and  medium businesses. The initiative allows Snam to integrate 
employs around 50 people.  its range of services offered to industrial customers, adding 
the expertise of plant engineering design, running and 
Sustainable mobility maintaining the current proposal developed through TEP 
Cubogas  Energy Solution.
Operating globally in the production and sale of methane 
gas compression systems, in 2019 it actively contributed  The international 
to pursuing Snam's strategy on sustainable mobility, both 
in Italy, supplying compressors for the start-up of the 
infrastructure 
new methane refuelling stations for motor transport, 
and abroad, where it was awarded, among other things, a 
substantial tender to supply 23 compressors in Greece and  system and Snam's 
another two tenders in France to supply 6 compressors 
for the RATP public transport vehicles, a Parisian company  role
operating throughout the Île-de-France region.
Cubogas also produces domestic systems, which allow 
the refuelling of vehicles directly, at home or at work. It 
involves reasonably small systems that are simple to install,  International growth aims to consolidate the European 
that can be adapted to the domestic or corporate gas or  infrastructure system facilitating the alignment between 
electricity grid and are therefore ideal for refuelling the  the consumer and producer interests, promoting a greater 
fleets of companies or small municipalities. In 2019, one  liquidity in the South-European gas market also through the 
of these compressors was installed at the Snam HQ in  development of new routes, and preserving the connection 
San Donato Milanese and many more will follow at other  between the United Kingdom and continental Europe.
premises throughout Italy.  The Company operates abroad through its subsidiaries in 
In 2019, Cubogas also made investments aimed at  Albania (AGSCo), Austria (TAG, GCA), China (Snam Gas & 
increasing its production capacity, expanding and  Energy Services Beijing), France (Teréga), Greece (DESFA) 
innovating its range of products as well as improving  and the United Kingdom (Interconnector UK). It is one of the 
the quality of the maintenance service provided to its  main shareholders of TAP (Trans Adriatic Pipeline) and the 
customers. main player involved in planning the creation of the Energy 
In addition to the compression of methane for motor  Union.
transport use, Cubogas also contributes to the  The leader in Europe through the extensiveness of the natural 
development of biomethane, providing its customers with  gas transportation network (over 41,000 km) and storage 
technological solutions to compress the gas produced  capacity (more than 20 billion cubic metres), Snam manages 
by the plants and enable them to be introduced into the  the major liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility built in Italy and 
transportation network. In this context, Cubogas works in  is a shareholder of Adriatic LNG, the main terminal in the 
harmony with IES Biogas and Snam 4 Environment within  country and one of the most strategic in the Mediterranean 
Snam's Energy Transition Business Unit. which, together with its investment in DESFA, through the 
Revithoussa facility, gives a total pro rata regasification 
capacity of around 7 billion cubic metres per year.
Energy efficiency
Tep Energy Solution
An ESCo (Energy Service Company), accredited at Gestore dei  Snam’s presence  
Sistemi Energetici S.p.A. (GSE), which is mainly involved with 
energy requalification and deep renovation operations for 
in Italy
apartment buildings and industrial sites for civil and service 
sector use. These interventions are designed to optimise the 
energy performance of buildings/facilities with a consequent 
reduction in energy consumption and the impact on the  Snam is the leading Italian natural gas transportation and 
environment of corporate operations and processes. dispatching operator owning almost all of the transportation 
infrastructure in Italy, with around 32,600 kilometres of 
TEA Servizi medium and high-pressure gas pipelines. 
On 11 November 2019, through the wholly-owned company 
Asset Company 4 S.r.l., Snam completed the acquisition of 
Snam profile  11