Global Compact reconciliation 
table
The Snam management model takes its inspiration from the Code of Ethics and is 
based on management policies founded on the principles of the United Nations 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Fundamental Conventions of the ILO and 
the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. The Code of Ethics can be consulted 
at the address http://www.snam.it/en/governance-conduct/business-conduct/code-
of-ethics/ and the policies can be consulted on the Company's website at http://www.
snam.it/en/Sustainability/strategy_and_commitments/index.html.
The ten principles Sustainability Report 2019 Page
Human rights
■	 Snam operates in the framework of the United Nations Universal Declaration of  104-105
Human Rights, the Fundamental Conventions of the ILO - International Labour 
Principles, 1, 2 - Companies are asked  Organisation - and of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the 
to promote and respect universally  principles enshrined in the United Nations Global Compact (principles enshrined in 
recognised human rights in their  its own code of ethics).
respective spheres of influence and to  ■	 Snam promotes sustainability and business ethics in its supply chain and  88-94
make sure they are not complicit, even  conducts audits in the field of human rights, occupational safety of suppliers and 
indirectly, in human rights violations. subcontractors.
■	 Snam safeguards occupational safety and health through training, sensitisation  78, 81-82
raising and education initiatives
Labour
■	 Snam respects everyone’s dignity, and offers equal opportunities in every phase and  73-76
Principles 3, 4, 5, 6 - Businesses are 
every aspect of the employment relationship, avoiding all forms of discrimination 
required to uphold freedom of 
based on sex, age, health, nationality, political opinion or religious views.
association and the recognition of 
■	 Snam applies the Energy and Petroleum agreement and guarantees trade union  71-72, 85
the right to collective bargaining; 
rights for all workers.
the elimination of all forms of 
■	 Snam holds meetings with Trade Union organisations at a national and local level  85
forced and compulsory labour; 
dedicated to the analysis of business development projects and new organisational 
the abolition in practice of child 
structures
labour; and the elimination of all 
■	 Snam develops initiatives to reconcile work and life 83-84
forms of discrimination in respect of 
■	 Snam provides its employees with training and professional development  77-80
employment and work.
opportunities
Principles 7, 8, 9 - Companies are asked  ■	 Snam develops projects to strengthen its operational excellence and to contribute  54-62
to maintain a preventive approach  to the containment of greenhouse gas emissions.
to environmental challenges; to  ■	 Protecting the environment and biodiversity are integral parts in defining Snam's  64-68
undertake initiatives that promote  corporate policies and investment decisions
greater environmental responsibility;  ■	 All of Snam's activities are monitored by certified environmental management  108-109
and to encourage the development  systems (ISO 14001)
and dissemination of technologies that  ■	 Snam performs specific energy management and CO saving activities 55-57
2
respect the environment. ■	 Snam also evaluates it suppliers using environmental criteria 92-93
Anti- corruption
■	 Snam disseminates ethical principles and business values 104, 106-107
■	 Snam collaborates with International Transparency International on anti-corruption  107
Principle 10 - Companies commit  and governance
to fighting corruption in any form,  ■	 Snam provides training activities in matters of legality and anti-corruption 107
including extortion and bribery. ■	 Snam conducts reputational checks of suppliers and subcontractors 108
■	 No cases of corruption were reported in 2019 125
Snam also undertakes to contribute to the sustainable development of the economy  48-49
and future society with reference to the Sustainable Development Goals defined by the 
Support for Sustainable Development 
UN and expresses its contribution to all the goals. With reference to the strategy of the 
Goals
integration of SDGs into the business model, Snam is particularly active in goals 3,4,5,7, 
8, 9,10,12, 13, 15,17.
Annex  129