A WORLD RUNNING ON GAS AND SNAM'S ROLE
Compressed Natural Gas is  Biomethane is obtained in speciﬁc 
obtained compressing natural gas  plants, from anaerobic digestion of 
until its volume becomes less than  agricultural and agroindustrial 
1% of the volume it takes at a normal  by-products through a biogas
Gas atmospheric pressure. It is kept in  Biomethane upgrading process.
Compression Plant tanks with a 200-248 bar pressure. plant It can be introduced in the network 
and it is used in all the sectors where 
gas is used also as a fuel for road 
transport.
Gas
Compression Plant
Natural gas is produced from the  The regasiﬁcation activities are 
anaerobic decomposition of organic  carried out through the The storage activities are managed 
material. In nature it is found in fossil  regasiﬁcation plant in Panigaglia (La  through the concession of nine 
state on its own or together with oil  Spezia), the ﬁrst of its kind  storage ﬁelds (in Lombardy, Emilia
and other hydrocarbons. developed in Italy, in 1971. Romagna and Abruzzo) made of 
The main component of natural gas  Regasiﬁcation is the last one of the  reservoirs, wells, pipelines, 
is methane (CH₄). activities in the liquiﬁed natural gas  treatment facilities and compression 
During combustion, most of the  chain (LNG) and it consists of  plants. The storage of natural gas 
methane gas is converted into steam  reverting the natural gas extracted  consists of the injection of the gas 
and carbon dioxide (CO₂). from the reservoirs to its original  into the porous rock belonging to an
state and after that, the gas is  Storage exhausted reservoir which was 
liquiﬁed to a -160° C temperature to  Plant previously ﬁlled with natural gas 
allow its transportation on speciﬁc  itself, brining back the reservoir to its
LNG 
carriers. In the gas system, the LNG original state in a certain way. Once 
Regasiﬁcation
chain allows to diversify the gas  stored, the gas can be transported 
Plant
procurement sources. and delivered, allowing to
compensate the diﬀerence between 
the gas supply and demand, ensuring 
continuity in the gas provision.
LNG
liquefaction plant
LNG Carrier
Reduction
Regarding transportation, natural gas 
Cabin
is taken over at the delivery points, 
located on the importation lines 
(Russia, Northern Europe and
Northern Africa), at the regassiﬁcation 
plants and at the production and 
storage centers located in Italy. 
Gas is therefore transported and 
delivered at the redelivery points 
connected to the distribution 
networks and to the main industrial 
and power generators plants. 
Thermoelectric Microliquefaction Methane/LNG Residential  Industrial  Service 
Power Plant Plant Gas Station Use Plants Industry
Cryo LNG 
The Dispatching Center ensure the
Gas Truck
monitoring and remote controlling 
of the storage plants and of the 
transportation network, ensuring the 
Snam Activities
Snam  Snam  continue balance of the gas ﬂows 
Other Activities Headquarters Dispatching Center both in normal and emergency 
circumstances.
14 Report di Sostenibilità 2019