ESG INDICES AND RATINGS
Snam's presence in sustainability indices
For the eleventh year in a row, Snam's stock is listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index, the world's most 
important stock market index assessing corporate social responsibility. 
Snam’s is once again present in the FTSE4Good, where it has been listed since 2002, an index created by the FTSE 
Group to encourage investment in companies that meet globally recognised social responsibility standards and is 
an important point of reference to establish benchmarks and ethical portfolios.
Snam's listing is confirmed in the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe and in the Ethibel 
Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Global. Confirmed once again on the Ethibel PIONEER and Ethibel 
EXCELLENCE Investment Registers: the selection made by the Ethibel Forum indicates that Snam is one of the 
leading companies in the industry in terms of CSR.
Snam's listing has been confirmed for the fifth year running in the two sustainability indexes MSCI ACWI SRI 
Index and MSCI ACWI ESG Leaders, by MSCI, an international leader providing IT tools to support the investment 
decisions of global investors. The MSCI Global Sustainability indices includes companies having high sustainability 
ratings in their affiliated sectors.
For the tenth consecutive year Snam stock came to form part of the STOXX Global ESG Leaders Indices, a group 
of indices based on a transparent process of selection of the performance, in terms of sustainability, of 1,800 
companies listed worldwide.
Snam is included in five of the main ECPI sustainability indexes. Snam's inclusion in the family of ECPI indices dates 
back to 2008. The ECPI methodology consists in screening based on testing more than 100 ESG (Environmental, 
Social and Governance) indicators
Snam is confirmed to be included in 2019 as well in the (Europe, Eurozone, World) NYSE Euronext Vigeo 120 
indices, managed by Vigeo, a leading company at a European level in rating companies regarding CSR issues.
Snam was also listed, in 2019, for the sixth year running, in the United Nations Global Compact 100 index (GC 100), 
developed by the United Nations Global Compact with the research firm Sustainalytics, which includes the 100 
companies that have distinguished themselves at the global level both for attention to sustainability issues and 
to financial performance, and that adhere to the ten fundamental principles of the United Nations on the human 
rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption issues.
ESG ratings
Snam was included for the seventh consecutive year among the highest scorers of CDP, a non-profit organisation 
which is one of the most important internationally for climate change and was also included on the A List.
Snam joined the CDP supply chain programme for the first time, the CDP programme aimed at the involvement of 
its supply chain in the climate change questionnaire. Snam got a score of A-, demonstrating the commitment of its 
suppliers in engagement activities involving issues related to the reduction of emissions and the development of 
sustainable strategies.
In 2018, Snam was confirmed at “PRIME” level (with rating B-) by Oekom research, a leading international agency 
rating socially responsible investments, which operates on behalf of institutional investors and financial services 
companies.
Snam was confirmed again in 2019 in the Sustainalytics index, a leading ratings agency that evaluates companies 
from an ESG perspective, which the company has been part of since 2013.
Snam profile  21