Today and tomorrow’s 
challenge. Hydrogen and 
green gases 
Climate altering emissions are increasing, targets are not being met and there 
is an urgent need to redefine global policies to curb the consequences of 
climate change in the short, medium and long-term: this is the alarming scenario 
outlined in recent years which, at the same time, represents one of the greatest 
challenges in the history of humanity. 
To mitigate these effects it will be necessary to develop an economic system 
based on a progressive decarbonisation, gradually reducing the use of fossil 
fuels, starting with the most polluting, such as, for example, coal, focusing on 
the use of more efficient energy in order to curb consumption and promote the 
development and use of renewable and alternative energy sources.
For this reason, at the Paris Climate Conference (COP21) in December 2015, 195 
countries adopted the first universal and legally binding agreement on climate 
change at a global level. The agreement defines a global action plan to keep the 
average annual global temperature increase to within 1.5% compared with pre-
industrial levels. The European Union formally ratified the Paris Agreement of 
October 2016 and defined and expressed its commitment within the framework 
of the Clean energy for all Europeans Package by 2030 and the EU 2050 Climate 
Long-term Strategy, which aim not only to reduce CO emissions (-40% by 2030 
2
and -100% by 2050), but also increase the share of energy produced from 
renewable sources (+32% by 2030) and improve energy efficiency (+32.5% by 
2030). 
Among the various initiatives planned,  The greater ambition in the area of energy and climate is broadly mirrored in 
note, by way of example, the future  the European Green Deal document. It is a paper, of a non-legislative nature, 
adoption of the European Climate  prepared by the new European Commission team, that took up office on 1 
Law, aimed at defining the target  December 2019. The EU Green Deal summarises the collection of initiatives that 
of climate neutrality by 2050 in a  the new European Commission intends to adopt during its term in office (2019 - 
binding manner in EU legislation.  2024) in order to set out on the journey to climate neutrality by 2050.
There are also plans to publish a 
specific plan aimed at improving the  The intention of the European Commission is also to reshape the current Gas 
goal of reducing emissions by 2030  Directive with the goal of facilitating the decarbonisation of the industry through 
to between 50% and 55% (compared  the definition of a competitive green gas market and dealing with the issue of 
with the 1990 levels), with the  methane emissions. In this context, Snam has chosen to take a leading role in the 
consequent need to reshape some of  energy transition imposed by the Paris agreements and by the objectives defined 
the main EU legislative acts on energy  at EU level, not only through the continued growth of its business, thanks to the 
and climate (for example, the Emission  example of the progressive phasing out of coal, but also and, above all, through 
Trading System, Energy Efficiency and  the development of green gases such as hydrogen, biomethane and synthetic 
Renewable Energy Directives). methane.
The pursue of a new energy   2233