The first element
Hydrogen is a clean and versatile source of energy which, if generated from 
renewable energy and then transported, stored and used as a gas, does not 
generate emissions of carbon dioxide and other climate-changing gases, or 
emissions that are damaging to man and the environment. For this reason, it can 
assume a key role in energy transition and in guaranteeing that the European and 
global decarbonisation targets are reached by 2050.
Currently, it is mainly employed for industrial uses and is obtained from natural 
gas, through a thermo-chemical conversion process with the production of CO
2 
(grey hydrogen). Added to this is the technology for capturing and storing the 
CO (CCS) to obtain decarbonised hydrogen (blue hydrogen). However, the most 
2
promising route for the development of hydrogen is the production of “green 
hydrogen”, generated through electrolysis of water, in which electricity is used 
to "break down" the water into hydrogen and oxygen without the emission of any 
CO at the point of release.
2
One of the main advantages of green hydrogen is related to its possible use 
to integrate the development of non-programmable energy sources, such as 
wind power and solar power. Specifically, the development of electricity in the 
national energy mix through non-programmable renewable sources will lead 
to the need to store energy to balance seasonal peaks in demand. Hydrogen, in 
a complementary manner to other forms of energy storage, like batteries and 
reservoirs, could contribute to the balancing of the supply of energy during the 
year, making it possible, for example to convert the energy produced in summer 
by photovoltaic plants and store it during the winter months. The possibility of 
converting energy from non-programmable renewable sources thereby reduces 
the country's dependency on specific energy resources and certain exporting 
countries, increasing energy security and economic advantages.
A key characteristic of hydrogen is therefore its capacity to act at the same time as 
a clean energy source and an energy vector for storage. Added to this is the fact 
that hydrogen, especially in countries where domestic energy demand is mainly 
covered using natural gas, can be transported through the existing pipelines, 
mixed with natural gas and, in the future, in dedicated pipelines. Specifically, in 
Italy, thanks to the gas infrastructures that connect it to North African countries, 
where there is plenty of sunshine throughout the year, hydrogen can be produced 
in great quantities in these countries and transported to Italy and Europe through 
the national gas network.
 
Achieving the goal of 100% decarbonisation by 2050 also requires a significant 
reduction in so-called hard-to-abate sectors, namely high energy consumption 
"Hard-to-abate" are the sectors 
sectors with consequent high levels of greenhouse gas emissions, where the use 
with an intensive consumption 
of electricity has high costs or disadvantages of a technical nature. Technological 
of energy, for which the use  progress in these sectors has led to minimal progress in terms of energy efficiency 
of hydrogen could represent a  that are not enough to offset the high greenhouse gas emission levels. In this 
crucial choice in the reduction  context, hydrogen could represent a unique solution because it could be stored 
of emissions and used in a similar way to other fossil fuels, leading to a reduction in the costs 
connected with the use of existing technologies and infrastructures and the 
zeroing of emissions.
Now costs remain the main obstacle related to the development of hydrogen, 
which are still too high to allow large scale production to become widespread. 
However, strong growth is expected in the supply of hydrogen on a global scale 
that will allow a significant reduction in costs, from the current over €100 per 
MWh to around €20 per MWh by 2050.
30 Sustainability Report 2019