Conversely, the production of grey hydrogen, produced  countries. Taking into consideration the good availability 
from natural gas or coal, will see a rise in price resulting,  of renewables in Italy, thanks to its geographical location 
above all, from the increase in the cost of CO, in line with  and weather conditions (e.g. good direct sunlight), green 
2
European and Italian decarbonisation targets.  hydrogen will reach parity with grey hydrogen 5-10 years 
Specifically, in Italy, the cost of green hydrogen could  earlier than in other European Union member states such as, 
already be competitive by 2030, ahead of other European  for example, Germany. 
 
Development of production costs for green hydrogen and grey hydrogen in Italy to 2050
Cost of hydrogen production 
(EUR/MWh)
• Production from water and green  Green 140
   electricity in an electrolyzer hydrogen
• Carbon neutral 120
100
Increasing
CO₂ price
80
60
• Production from natural gas  Grey
   or coal in a reformer hydrogen 40
• Emits CO₂
20 Increasing installed capacity and
decreasing renewable energy cost
0
2010 2020 2030 2050 2050
Breakeven in Italy 5-10 year earlier than Germany due to 
better renewables availability (higher solar irradiation)
Source: Snam, 2019, "The Hydrogen Challenge: The potential of hydrogen in Italy".  
H2: inside the molecule
Hydrogen, the first element in the periodic table is the most  from fossil fuels could only be achieved in combination with 
abundant in the universe. It is a colourless, odourless gas  the capture, use (as an input for new hydrogen-based fuels) 
present, in combination with other elements in compounds  and storage of coal through the carbon capture, use and 
such as water, minerals, hydrocarbons and biological  storage technique (CCS). This technique makes it possible 
molecules. It is very light, exactly 16 times lighter than  to offset, in full or in part, the CO emissions from its 
2
oxygen, can be stored, has a very high energy content per  production. The hydrogen produced through the storage of 
unit mass and can be easily reproduced from different  coal is defined as blue hydrogen.
energy sources, such as fossil fuels (grey hydrogen) and  Green hydrogen is produced from the electrolysis of water, 
renewable energy sources (green hydrogen). The colours  a process in which water is broken down into oxygen and 
grey and green refer to the different production sources  hydrogen with zero emissions. Thanks to the electrolysis 
of hydrogen, respectively from natural gas or from oil and  process, it is possible to produce hydrogen from electricity 
electricity from renewable sources.  and vice versa. Hydrogen, like electricity, is an energy vector. 
Grey hydrogen is mainly produced from natural gas. The  What distinguishes hydrogen from electricity is the fact that 
most common production process is called gas reforming  it is composed of molecules and not electrons. This means 
which consists of getting water vapour and natural gas  that it can be stored and transported and, if combined with 
to react at high temperature. The consequent chemical  other elements, forms so-called hydrogen-based fuels (e.g. 
reaction produces hydrogen and leads to the emission of  synthetic methane, ammonia) so that it can be used as an 
CO into the air, due to gas combustion for heating. The  energy source for various productive uses. 
2
production of hydrogen with a low environmental impact 
32 Sustainability Report 2019