Interview with   Development of this market will be dependent on the cost of 
Mark Zoback hydrogen generation (principally the cost of electrolyzers) but 
also the development of local hydrogen storage facilities and, of 
course, electricity. Blending hydrogen into the existing natural 
gas pipeline infrastructure is extremely attractive as a low-cost 
option to help decarbonize the natural gas system, particularly 
for heating. There are concerns about the ability for the natural 
gas pipeline system to accommodate hydrogen, but many of 
these should be resolvable in a few years.         
             
Mark Zoback is a geophysic professor and director of the 
Which is the role that both the key players such as companies 
“Stanford Natural Gas Initiative” at Standford University, 
operating in the energy industry and the final customers can 
he is also co- director of the “Stanford Center for Induced 
play in these scenarios?
and Triggered Seismicity (SCITS)”  and of the“Stanford 
Companies will need to demonstrate that required technologies 
Center for Carbon Storage (SCCS)”. He is author to more 
are available for deployment and develop business models and 
than 300 articles and books, he also holds five patents and 
markets. Thirteen large international corporations recently 
received several academic and institutional awards such as 
formed the Hydrogen Council to create alignment on the 
the'”Outstanding Contribution to the Public Understanding 
use of hydrogen for the energy transition. Companies, and 
of the Geosciences Award”  from the “American Geological 
governments for that matter, are at risk of burning billions of 
Institute” in 2016.
dollars in pursuit of widespread hydrogen implementation if it 
is not done in a systematic and integrated manner. Companies 
should be strategic in their vision for low-carbon hydrogen and 
Hydrogen technologies have experienced a great deal of interest  focus investments in hydrogen in cases where other cheaper and 
in both academic research and commercial communities over the  more established technologies cannot be deployed. Hence, the 
last few years, primarily as an option for deep decarbonization  emphasis on heavy-duty transportation discussed above. There 
of the transportation and power sectors. While the applications  is certainly a lot of hype about “the new hydrogen economy”. It 
and pathways to commercialization have more clarity (and  is somewhat reminiscent of the hype surrounding the internet. 
promise) than in previous periods of interest in hydrogen, recent  Yes, the internet has revolutionized commerce, entertainment, 
improvements in cost and performance point to economic  etc. but only after a period in which there were spectacular and 
viability.  Hydrogen appears to be on the cusp of a step change  costly failures such as when the dot-com bubble burst in the late 
in technology developments, cost reduction and especially  1990’s.
public acceptance. It is also seeing relatively small-scale success 
in several markets such as fork lift trucks being used in indoor  How important is the technologic innovation and R&D for the 
warehouses and home hydrogen fuel cells for electrical power  development of hydrogen at scale?
back-up. In general, widespread utilization of hydrogen across  Widespread use of hydrogen would greatly benefit from 
many sectors suggests a potential for synergy and scaling.  technological improvements and cost reductions associated 
with technologies (such as electrolyzers) that would be able to 
Which role do you foresee for hydrogen as a fuel for the  operate over a wide range of scales. 
decarbonization of the current and future energy scenarios?
In the context of areas where hydrogen is able to uniquely fit as  Can hydrogen play a key role in the growth of developing 
a critical energy source in a largely decarbonized energy world,  countries? 
heavy-duty transportation, primarily long-haul trucking, buses  The use of hydrogen fuel cell vehicles in many of the mega-cities 
and potentially ferries/ships seems to stand out. For instance,  of the developing world would be of tremendous benefit. In 
in the context of heavy-duty transportation, hydrogen is  densely populated areas, grid-based electricity principally comes 
particularly attractive because the refuelling time is significantly  from coal-fired power plants. It may be most reasonable to 
shorter than for electric trucks and the range of 300-500 miles it  transition from coal to natural gas before renewable sources for 
requires limited infrastructure to existing trucking routes. From  power generation because of the scale at which electricity needs 
a business perspective, the introduction of a fleet of heavy- to be supplied in the megacities of the developing world. This 
duty vehicles will need to be coordinated with the build-out  said, a major issue affecting electrical power in the developing 
of refuelling infrastructure and with appropriate policy and  world is its unreliability. Hence, in much of the developing world, 
regulatory reforms. Some sizeable, but limited applications (e.g.,  nearly all middle-to-upper class consumers and small businesses 
local port authorities utilizing large hydrogen fuel cell vehicles)  have back-up sources of electrical power – usually diesel-
will be an important early-market and a valuable proving-ground  powered generators. While one could use much cleaner natural 
for eventual large-scale deployment of hydrogen-powered  gas-powered generators, another option is to generate and 
vehicles. store hydrogen through electrolysis and use fuel cells to deal 
Another market sector that could see significant increases  with electrical power intermittency. However, this will require a 
(pending technological developments and cost reduction) is as a  substantial decrease in the capital cost of electrolyzers (as well 
back-up storage/distribution mechanism for curtailed renewable  as the overall system cost). If the system cost for hydrogen fuel 
electricity (as an alternative to batteries) in the power sector. In  cells is substantially more than diesel- or gas-fired generators, 
this application, electrolyzers seem like the most practical source  it may be difficult to establish this market in much of the 
of hydrogen as it circumvents the need for carbon storage. developing world.
The pursue of a new energy  33