Managing the 
environmental advantages: compared with traditional fuels, 
CNG allows the reduction of CO emissions by around 20% 
energy of the future:  2
(and up 100% if from biomethane), nitrogen oxides by 
around 75% and fine particles by 97%. Strengthened by its 
the sustainable  extensive pipeline network, which allows the transportation 
of CNG with little impact on the environment and vehicular 
traffic, Italy is already the market leader in Europe for the 
mobility
consumption of methane for motor traffic, with over a billion 
cubic metres consumed in 2019 and around one million 
The deployment of natural gas in the transport sector and the  vehicles currently in circulation.
integration of biogas and biomethane will play a crucial role  During the year, Snam ratified agreements and partnerships 
in supporting domestic economic growth and in combating  with the aim of promoting sustainable mobility throughout 
climate change, in a process of rapid global transition  the country. 
towards decarbonised economies. The ease of transporting  In 2019, Snam and the Spanish motor manufacturer SEAT 
and storing natural gas allows the development of multiple  worked together since the agreement signed in 2018 for the 
projects linked to the widespread use of compressed natural  technological development and expansion of compressed 
gas (CNG) for motor transport and liquefied natural gas (LNG)  natural gas and biogas refuelling infrastructure for 
used in heavy land and sea transport. In addition, biomethane  sustainable development. This partnership involved Snam's 
can also be compressed, liquefied, transported and used like  commitment to creating innovative infrastructures and the 
renewable fuel. Alongside the development of low emission  development, by SEAT, of new models of vehicles running 
fuels, the commitment outlined in its Strategic Plan means  on methane. The companies worked on development 
that Snam will upgrade the existing infrastructure in order to  opportunities for initiatives aimed at retailers, commercial 
expand the network of natural gas refuelling stations. This  customers and motorists to promote the network of 
objective will also be achieved through targeted partnerships  natural gas refuelling stations and identify initiatives for 
with other sector players, such as the acquisition of Cubogas,  the technological development of biomethane. Specifically, 
involved in the business of natural gas compressors for  commissioned by the competent Ministries, Snam produced 
sustainable mobility. a web tutorial for the implementation of the self-service 
facilities dedicated to natural gas for motor transport. 
COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS (CNG) FOR  This new partnership will develop further the sustainable 
MOTOR TRANSPORT: AN EFFECTIVE  mobility with natural gas and biomethane, both in Italy 
RESPONSE TO TRANSPORT GENERATED  and throughout the continent, because it joins together 
POLLUTION two European leaders: Snam in the creation of innovative 
infrastructures and SEAT in the development of new 
The natural gas transported in the Snam network can be  sustainable models.
compressed and used as an alternative to traditional fossil  As part of the promotion of sustainable development in 
fuels for cars, lorries and buses.   Italy, in 2019 Snam upgraded the existing infrastructure in 
The use of CNG instead of petrol and diesel has significant  readiness for the development of the CNG and LNG markets. 
Alternative to traditional fuels: bio CNG and bio LNG
Petrol bio
and diesel CNG Lower
-75% emissions
NO
X
up to
-100%
CO₂
-97%
PM
Diesel in heavy bio
goods vehicles LNG Source: Snam elaboration based on data 
from EMPA, IVECO and Annex VI of the 
EU Parliament Directive 2018/2001
The pursue of a new energy  37