LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (LNG): A SOLUTION  The most significant increase involves the sector of 
FOR REDUCING MARITIME AND HEAVY  biomethane from organic waste, agricultural and agro-
TRANSPORT EMISSIONS industrial waste, which will play a strategic role in the journey 
to decarbonisation, especially in the sector of sustainable 
LNG is produced from natural gas that is cooled and  mobility. Following the Italian government's decision to 
compressed until it reaches a liquid state. In this form the gas  incentivise 1.1 billion cubic metres of biomethane for 
can be easily stored and transported, and importing it by sea  mobility, and the long-term potential of up to 12 billion cubic 
allows for further diversification of procurement sources,  metres of biomethane by 2040 identified in the Snam-Terna 
with positive effects on national energy security. scenarios, there is now a significant interest in this business. 
LNG can be consumed in traditional systems or as an  Snam aims to support and accelerate the development of the 
alternative to other fossil fuels for motor transport, rail  Italian market also by investing, through its subsidiaries, in 
transport or sea transport, replacing diesel, fuel oil or marine  infrastructure and in the construction of plants.
diesel.
The use of LNG instead of diesel has significant  Snam has plans to invest around €250 million compared 
environmental advantages with a considerable reduction in  with the €100 million in the previous plan to build plants 
emissions both in terms of climate altering gases and local  with an installed capacity of more than 40 Megawatt. Snam 
pollutants, especially in the case of the use of LNG from  developed the following initiatives in 2019 with this in mind: 
methane produced from renewable sources. Specifically, the  •  through the new subsidiary Snam 4 Environment, 
use of liquefied natural gas allows a reduction in emissions of  it acquired from Ladurner Ambiente and from AB 
fine particles (-97%), nitrogen oxides (-75%) and CO (up to  Invest a stake of around 83% in Renerwaste, one of 
2
100% in the case of the use of BioLNG). the largest companies operating in Italy in biogas 
For these reasons, in 2019 Snam developed numerous  and biomethane infrastructures, for an outlay at the 
initiatives with its partners for the development of small scale  closing, including the repayment of the shareholders' 
infrastructures with the aim of promoting the production  loan, of around €46 million. This acquisition enabled 
and distribution of liquid natural gas to advocate sustainable  Snam to have an operational base of facilities, several 
mobility for ship, lorry and train transportation. Specifically,  key senior figures for the development of the business 
Snam completed the upgrading of the Panigaglia terminal  and the necessary requirements to participate in 
in order to allow the unloading of lorries for the distribution  future public-private partner initiatives. The scope of 
of LNG and developed further activities concerning micro- this operation includes three project companies (SPV) 
liquefaction plants. These activities come under the principles  that are already operational, two of which own biogas 
described in the DAFI (Law 257/2016) in order to develop and  facilities for cogeneration, with a total supply of around 
increase the use of alternative fuels throughout Italy). 130 thousand tonnes per year of FORSU (Ecoprogetto 
In 2019 Snam also signed a Memorandum of Understanding  Milano and Ecoprogetto Tortona) and the owner of a 
with the FS Foundation and HITACHI for research into and the  municipal solid waste treatment plant (RSU) with a total 
operational implementation of the first LNG train in Italy. This  capacity of 75 thousand tonnes per year (Renerwaste 
collaboration is the result of the desire of 3 companies to also  Lodi);
transform the railway industry (traditionally electric or diesel)  •  it signed a Memorandum Of Understanding with the 
into a new "customer" for methane also promoting the use  Infore Environmental Group, an environmental services 
of green fuels to replace diesel. The end of the project is  company listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange and 
the first inaugural journey on the tourist lines run by the FS  the controlling shareholder of Ladurner Ambiente, for 
Foundation expected to take place by the end of 2020 after  potential joint initiatives for the development of biogas 
the conversion of the diesel engines and tanks to liquefied  and biomethane infrastructure in China;
natural gas. •  it signed a binding letter of intent aimed at negotiating 
and defining agreements to launch a strategic 
Green innovation partnership in infrastructure for biomethane from 
agriculture through the entry, with a 50% stake, into 
Iniziative Biometano, a company operating in Italy 
Snam is responding with an increase in activities and  with five biogas plants, for which there is a plan for 
investments aimed at achieving the decarbonisation goals.  conversion to biomethane, and with various plants in the 
Investments are continuing in Snamtec, the programme  process of authorisation or construction.
that combines all activities in the field of energy efficiency,  Not requiring new investments in infrastructures and helping 
technological innovation and energy transition which, in  to exploit waste and sub-products, biomethane becomes a 
2019, rose to €1.4 billion. Specifically, Snam plans to double  vital source for focusing national and European objectives i 
investments in the new businesses for energy transition to at  terms of decarbonisation. 
least €400 million, compared with the figure of €200 million 
in the previous plan. 
The pursue of a new energy  39