THE MAIN EVENTS
Snam has organised and taken part in many events in order to strengthen and 
disseminate its all-round knowledge of the Group's companies, especially in a 
period of continuous development where the Company is renewing itself and 
expanding into new businesses to support energy transition.
Energy transition  One of the most important events in 2019 in which many Snam's stakeholders 
took part was “The Hydrogen Challenge - 2019 Global ESG Conference”, at 
Lanterna di Fuksas in Rome, focused on the potential of hydrogen as a clean 
energy vector on the journey to national and international decarbonisation. The 
conference, sponsored by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and "Cooperazione 
Internazionale" and the National Research Council (CNR), featured a speech by 
the Prime Minister, Giuseppe Conte and was attended by numerous international 
guests. During the first day, agreements were signed with the Israel Innovation 
Authority and with the CNR on innovation and sustainable energy. The second 
day, in conjunction with the World Economic Forum, was dedicated to interactive 
round table discussions between international experts on the development of 
technological solutions for a sustainable hydrogen economy.
As part of this event, Snam, in collaboration with the Luiss University, also 
promoted a permanent monitoring centre aimed at the integration of ESG issues 
in the business strategy.
Together with Cassa Depositi e Prestiti and Terna, Snam organised the first edition 
of the “Stati Generali della Transizione Energetica Italiana” (General States of 
the Italian Energy Transition, an event dedicated to the future of the Italian energy 
system featuring numerous institutions and sponsored by the Prime Minister's 
Office and the Ministry of Economic Development. During this event, the various 
participants had to the opportunity to stress the importance of "sustainable" 
development of infrastructures supporting the country's future energy transition.
Technological innovation  Snam was among the protagonists of the 23rd edition of Ecomondo, the event 
in Rimini on technological innovation and sustainable development. Snam 
staged its Green Village, a pavilion composed of four islands dedicated to energy 
efficiency, biomethane, sustainable mobility and innovative forms of gas storage 
and compression. Snam brought its innovation expertise to Digital Week, the 
event promoted by the Municipality of Milan to discuss all aspects of digital 
transformation. During the event, the Company had the opportunity to meet 
stakeholders of the digital ecosystem and start ups, describing its technological 
development and digitalisation journey.
Protecting the environment  Snam has been developing positive experiences with Italian parks through the 
“Sentieri Sostenibili” (Sustainable Paths) editorial initiative for many years, 
in which Snam chronicles its commitment to environmental protection and 
the adoption of virtuous best practices which have always been a part of the 
Company's way of operating when creating infrastructures. The fifth edition 
added to the series is on the Foreste Casentinesi National Park and was presented 
at the literary and cultural festival “Fuori conTesto” with Fabio Genovesi, the 
Strega Giovani Prize winner. The park, recently recognised by UNESCO as a 
World Heritage Site, stretches between the Tuscany and Romagna regions with 
two parallel pipelines which are part of the transportation backbone taking 
gas from North Africa to Italy passing briefly through it. The story of the park 
and its geographical, natural, historical and cultural features is intertwined 
with the operational efforts made by Snam in an area of value which enables 
infrastructures that are vital for the country's energy requirements to coexist with 
the environment and ecosystems.
42 Sustainability Report 2019