SNAM AND THE EU ENERGY TRANSITION  transition and decarbonisation, highlighting initiatives and 
projects relating to the new businesses, with a special focus 
The initiatives and activities carried out by Snam in Europe  on hydrogen and the leadership potential of Snam and Italy 
are aimed at promoting the use of gas as a tool to guarantee  in its development. 
the security of the energy system in Europe thanks to the  Alongside this, dialogue with the areas involved in the 
diversification of procurement sources and routes and to  main projects continued and increased. By virtue of this 
support the development of new forms of renewable gases  undertaking, Snam's visibility in the media increased, as well 
such as biomethane and hydrogen.  as the publication of news on its platforms. Specifically, 
In 2019, Snam, courtesy of its role as representing the  Snam recorded an increasingly more obvious presence 
interests of the entire gas supply chain through GasNaturally,  in international media with exposure on issues of global 
took part in the European discussions and round tables on  interest, first and foremost energy transition. In addition, 
energy, climate, mobility and sustainable finance, promoting  the international research organisation ".future" placed 
the use of gas as the ideal energy solution for achieving  Snam among the best companies (Gold Class) for digital 
future climate targets and supporting the European Union in  communication on sustainability.
its climate neutrality strategy by 2050. As far as social activities are concerned, in 2019 Snam 
Work continued under the scope of the “Gas for Climate”  won the “Best employer brand” award on LinkedIn award 
consortium, created in 2017 and composed of 9 European  that confirms how digital platforms, specifically LinkedIn, 
TSOs (Enagás, Energinet, Fluxys, Gasunie, GRTgaz, ONTRAS,  represent a strategic tool for the company to make 
Open Grid Europe, Snam and Teréga) and 2 associations  themselves known by possible candidates and get in touch 
operating in the sector of renewable gas (Consorzio Italiano  with them. Snam's presence in the Forbes “Top Employers” 
Biogas and European Biogas Association). In 2019 the  international classification is evidence of the growing 
consortium promoted the results of a study, commissioned  reputation of the brand. Based on this study, taking into 
by Navigant, which highlights the opportunities for European  consideration 1.4 million interviews conducted globally 
citizens to achieve annual savings of around €217 billion by  and regionally, the company is one of only two Italian 
2050 using the existing gas structure for the development of  organisations among the top 150 in the world to work in.
biomethane and green hydrogen.  
Snam continued its activities with the European association 
“Natural & bio Gas Vehicle Association” (NGVA Europe) with 
the goal of promoting the use of natural gas and biomethane 
as alternative energy sources for sustainable mobility, both  Membership of the Un Zero Coalition
land and sea. 
Lastly, being part of the Hydrogen Europe and The Hydrogen  At the UN Climate Action Summit, which was held in 
Council associations, Snam strives to promote hydrogen as  September 2019 in New York, Snam joined the Zero 
an energy source that is sustainable and compatible with  Coalition, an alliance of the main global businesses and 
the existing gas infrastructure. In addition, as a member of  associations involved in the maritime, energy, finance and 
the World Energy Council, Snam is one of the founders of  infrastructure sectors, aimed at the decarbonisation of 
the Hydrogen Global Charter, a shared platform open to  shipping. From this perspective, the members of the coalition 
all stakeholders, from institutions to businesses, aimed at  are committed to promote the adoption of zero emission 
promoting the large-scale development of hydrogen. ships by 2030 and advocate the development of clean energy 
sources. In line with this vision, Snam is strongly committed 
to initiatives for sustainable transport by road, rail and sea, 
THE MEDIA: PRIZES AND AWARDS promoting the use of biomethane and BioLNG, as well as the 
development of hydrogen.
Thanks to a growing audience reached through social media 
and the corporate website and constant communication 
with media outlets, Snam confirmed its commitment once 
again in 2019 to communicate proactively and transparently 
with all its stakeholders. For the sixth year running Snam 
was among the leading Italian companies for digital 
communication in the Italian Webranking, standing out for 
its transparency. The 2019 survey involved 112 companies 
and Snam took second place with a score of 91.3 out of 100 
confirming its excellence.
During the year, Snam's communication was directed at 
strengthening the position of the company about the energy 
Stakeholder relationship  43