INNOVATION FOR BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT 
Snamtec: The development of more efficient and sustainable technologies is of vital 
40  importance in the reduction of the environmental impacts of a company. In 
projects  2019, various research and development activities launched in previous years 
10  were either continued or completed. At the same time, some new projects were 
different initiatives:   launched with a potential impact on various areas of corporate operations. Many 
• energy efficiency  of these projects have been conducted with the Snamtec (Tomorrow’s Energy 
• reduction of emissions  Company).
• new energy vectors 
•  optimisation of the 
management  Governance and monitoring  
•  remote control of assets of the network and plants
Installation of innovative systems for controlling and monitoring the network and 
facilities in the following areas:
•
Remote control: development of the Smart Tel project aimed at analysing 
 
the requirements of data acquisition and management processes relating to 
the control and running of the network, in particular:
-  adoption of IIoT solutions (Industrial Internet of Things) for reporting field 
data not available to date, for the diagnostics and operation of equipment 
aimed at making the gas transportation network increasingly more smart 
also defining supervision and maintenance logics that are appropriate and 
optimised for all equipment (for example, predictive maintenance); 
-  study of preheating plant engineering solutions with automated 
management aimed at optimising energy efficiency and reducing 
emissions; 
-  rationalisation of transmission equipment in order to have standardised, 
modular equipment to make the management and maintenance 
processes for the actual equipment more efficient; 
-  creation of a repository with all the data to facilitate the maximum 
integration and availability of validated data and the implementation of 
Big Data and Advanced Analytics.
•
Security:
 
-  initiatives for protection against fire in plant control rooms through 
vacuum technology. A project was later launched to install similar 
fire detection/extinguishing systems in the technical rooms of the 
compression stations. 
-  replacement of plant security management systems by installing 
electronic systems with SIL certification (Safety Integrity Level)  
•
Monitoring compression units: in 2019 a project was launched for the 
 
modernisation of a telediagnostic system for the compression units through 
the acquisition of thermodynamic and functional parameters for the future 
development of predictive analysis aimed at improving performance. 
In addition, in 2019 a project was completed for the development of a 
dashboard that collects the main important parameters needed for dispatch 
for the improved management of the turbochargers.
•
Electro-compressors: study for the introduction of electro-compressors at 
 
storage sits.
•
Trigeneration: in 2019 works were completed to put high-efficiency 
 
trigeneration plants into operation at the Gallese and Istrana compressor 
stations. The start up of the system at the Gallese station took place in the 
last quarter of 2019 achieving an energy saving of more than 65% with 
further improvement margins following the tuning in 2020.
52 Sustainability Report 2019