• •
  Treatment systems: installation of latest generation,  checks with flyovers: development of drone flight 
 
high performance equipment with a low environmental  infrastructure in BVLOS mode (Beyond Visual Line of 
impact. The first installation of the new generators at  Sight).
the Fiume Trieste facility is expected from 2020.
 
Gas metering
Physical integrity 
of infrastructures Development of innovative technologies and methodologies 
for metering and controlling natural gas and related impact 
Creation of experimental projects and development of  in the following areas:
specific collaborations aimed at guaranteeing the physical  Alternative instruments and quality measurement:
•
integrity of the infrastructures in the following areas: technological adaptation project with the installation 
•  
Collaboration with the EPRG: it is ongoing the  of quality analysers and the automation and remote 
 
collaboration with the EPRG (European Pipeline  reading of the main measurement and reserve 
Research Group, www.eprg.net), the association for  measurement.
•
research into pipelines of which Snam is a member. project for the installation of dew point HO meters and 
•   2
Protection against fire: installation of safety devices  hydrogen sulphide analysers.
  •
that, in the case of accidental breakage or faults,  Estimating natural gas emissions: evaluation of 
 
provide protection against the danger of pressurised  methods for estimating natural gas emissions and 
gas emissions during the accident scenarios in the case  research into the potential impacts, throughout the gas 
of fire. supply chain, of chemical components present in traces 
•
Micro-seismic monitoring: an innovative system  in biomethane is continuing in order to create the 
 
to protect plants against earthquakes composed of  conditions for its safe development in conjunction with 
accelerometers capable of instantly detecting seismic  the European research group GERG (Groupe Européen 
events and activating the automatic plant safety systems. de Recherches Gazières, www.gerg.eu).
  
Maintenance and checking  New businesses
of networks
Creation of dedicated working parties to take an in-depth 
Launch of trial projects for optimising and reinforcing  look into issues related to the development of new 
maintenance and checking activities for the transportation  businesses with special reference to:
•
networks in the following areas such as: Innovative use of existing infrastructures: sharing of 
•  
initiatives aimed at reducing emissions, with the  information and expertise on the use of infrastructures 
 
definition of all preparatory activities for the  in relation to their capacity for transporting and storing 
implementation of an LDAR programme (Leak  gases other than natural gas, including hydrogen:
Detection and Repair) for measuring and repairing leaks    The following initiatives were also examined under the 
in Snam plants.  scope of European associations (Marcogaz): 
• •
maintenance processes: continuation of the Smart  Power 2 Gas: the process through which the electricity 
   
gas project aimed at improving the effectiveness of  produced by renewable sources that is surplus to 
technical and operational processes, for the purpose  immediate consumption is transformed into hydrogen 
of a comprehensive revision of the work processes and  to be injected directly into the network (limited to 
regulations relating to corporate asset maintenance  the technically-acceptable quantities) or used for the 
activities. Specifically, the Smart LNG design and  production of synthetic methane (SINGAS) also to be 
realisation phase was launched in 2019 for operations  injected into the network and possibly stored later.
•
at the Panigaglia LNG terminal. The dematerialisation of  Adsorbed Natural Gas (ANG): this is one of the latest 
 
the archives in the regional units continued through the  technological developments for the storage of natural 
eDoc document system which will be fully integrated in  gas in tanks. The adsorption of natural gas in a porous 
Smart gas. sorbent injected into a recipient (tank/canister) takes 
•
leak detection: implementation of a system aimed at  place at ambient temperature and low pressure (25 - 
 
locating gas leaks along the transport network, based  35 bar).
on the analysis of the pressure waves and the detection 
of possible disruptions.
Environmen t 53