Tep Energy Solution
In May 2018 Snam acquired a controlling share, equal to  The goal is to create a green lung to curb atmospheric and 
82% of the share capital, of TEP Energy Solution (TEP),  acoustic pollution, absorb CO emissions (by around 20 
2
one of the main Italian companies operating in the energy  tonnes per year) and improve the quality of life of the area, 
efficiency sector.  with a recreational area for residents and children in the 
TEP is an ESCo (Energy Service Company), accredited at  nearby schools. 
Gestore dei Sistemi Energetici S.p.A. (GSE), which is mainly 
involved with energy requalification and deep renovation  Industrial and tertiary sector - ESCO energy efficiency 
operations for apartment buildings and industrial sites for  interventions
civil and service sector. The Company carries out operations that involve the 
TEP also provides advisory services to support energy- adoption of efficient technologies for reducing the 
intensive businesses and large companies to identify  environmental impact of production activities and 
the actions necessary for the reduction of the energy  processes, with the guarantee of achieving the savings 
consumption and the environmental impact in relation to  estimated in the design stage. The interventions mainly 
their corporate processes (carbon footprint and LCA, energy  relate to the utilities (thermal power stations, lighting, 
diagnoses, energy management systems compliant with ISO  cogeneration, purification, environmental climate control) 
50001:2018). with savings main in thermal energy. In 2019, 3 new plants 
In 2019, TEP market activities concentrated on various lines  were built which, together with the 5 plants constructed 
of intervention, integrating energy efficiency solutions in  previously and managed by TEP, has led to an overall 
domestic, tertiary and industrial sectors. reduction of CO emissions into the atmosphere of around 
2
1,050 tonnes/year.
Apartment blocks - integrated solution called “CasaMia”
The company offers energy diagnostic services for the  Energy Efficiency Certificates TEE (so-called White 
design and realisation of interventions with innovative  Certificates)
solutions (modernisation of thermal power stations,  TEEs are incentives recognised by the GSE for energy 
construction of thermal walls, improvement of seismic class,  efficiency actions where the savings actually achieved 
etc.) that make it possible to guarantee the heating and  can be measured and reported. TEP supports customers, 
climate control requirements and needs are met at the same  mainly in the industrial sector, with the management of 
time reducing consumption and CO emissions. In 2019 29  projects for recognising these certificates and for the 
2
interventions were carried out which led to a reduction in  subsequent calculation of savings to report to the GSE. In 
CO emissions of around 765 tonnes/year.  2019 59,612 TEEs were produced. The TEEs produced in 
2
the year, counting the production activities and processes 
“Mosaico Verde” (Green Patchwork) Campaign of end users, certify a reduction in CO emissions of around 
2
The company joined the national reforestation campaign  134,000 tonnes (83,000 for the reduction of thermal 
promoted by Legambiente and AzzeroCO. Under the scope  consumption and 51,000 for the reduction of electricity 
2
of this initiative, in 2019 TEP created the first urban wood  consumption) counted for the production activities and 
in Padua by planting 1,000 new native trees (linden, oak,  processes of end users.
field maple and Guelder-rose) in an urban area that was 
previously grassland.   
Environmen t 57