Protecting the local area 
and biodiversity
INFRASTRUCTURE SECURITY
During the design of the network, Snam takes into account aspects related to 
transportation and infrastructure security, the technical and economic feasibility 
During the year and in the  of the works and their environmental impact. In addition, great importance is 
transportation sector alone, 99  also attributed to the inclusion of the work in its context and in complying with 
meetings were held with local  landscape equilibrium with the visual and natural impact kept to a minimum. 
administrations and associations  Advanced procedures and technologies were adopted in the realisation of the 
to illustrate works projects. Eight  works which, subject to technical and economic feasibility, minimise the impact on 
agreements were concluded  the environment as far as possible. Where possible, as an alternative to traditional 
with these associations regarding  excavation techniques, Snam uses suitable advanced techniques such as, for 
easements. example, trenchless techniques, for the construction of tunnels or micro-tunnels, 
thereby also reducing the use of site equipment and the extent of the work area. 
Following the design and installation phase, Snam guarantees 360° monitoring of 
its assets, engaging in the research and development of technologies that allow 
complete control of the infrastructures. In order to detect potentially critical 
situations in the network and act promptly in the case of unforeseen external 
phenomena, the pipelines are inspected regularly by specialist personnel on foot, 
in vehicles and by helicopter. The same attention is also devoted to connection 
lines between storage facilities (compression and treatment) and the related 
auxiliary systems.
The Company relies on advanced technologies capable of exponentially improving 
the quality and quantity of checks on all its assets. The use of drones and satellites 
for checking networks and systems is evidence of the Snam's commitment to 
making its infrastructures increasingly more secure and efficient: with this in mind, 
in 2019, Snam launched the first trial of a long-distance civil flight of a remote-
control operated drone for monitoring the network. Snam also uses smart pigs to 
check and inspect the pipelines; these are smart devices equipped with sensors 
which, travelling inside the pipelines, can detect the presence of any defects or 
irregularities in the material or the minimal movement of the pipes. Geological 
inspections were also conducted and any land slippage at specific points of the 
route kept in check with the help of real time data collection systems that use 
a specific remote detection method, interferometric satellite SAR and CGPS 
stations.
Snam continuously monitors and checks the storage facilities through detection 
systems that automatically activate the security system as needed. The most 
frequently used systems are: explosive mixture detectors, fire detectors, smoke 
detectors, high or low pressure switches, pressure transmitters, fuse plug 
systems and heat sensitive cables, sound-level meters for detecting gas leaks and 
extinguisher systems. 
Monitoring and inspecting the network
2017 2018 2019
network inspected using smart pigs (km)  1,632 1,651 1,651
network inspected by helicopter (km) 16,274 18,462 20,178
network subject to geological inspection (km) 4,080 4,209 5,163
Environmen t 63