Snam Plastic Less
-100% As well as being a serious risk for the environment and animals, plastic is also a 
 of plastic   danger to human beings. Proof of this is the report published by the Center for 
in industrial packaging   International Environmental Law (CIEL) which stresses the urgency of adopting 
 2023 precautionary principles to protect mankind from plastic pollution.
by According to Assorimap, the national association for plastic recyclers and 
regenerators, in Italy one a quarter of the 2.1 million tonnes of plastic used is 
recycled. According to the report “The New Plastics Economy: Catalising Action” 
by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, only the 14% of plastic packaging used 
globally is collected and sent correctly to the recovery plants; all of the rest is 
incinerated, sent to landfill or dispersed into the atmosphere.
Snam wants to make its contribution to reducing the use of plastic and, for this 
reason, in 2019, it launched the “Snam Plastic Less” initiative aimed at reducing 
the use of plastic in industrial packaging by 100% by 2023 and eliminate single-
use plastic in drinks vending machines at all its company premises by 2020. A 
plan aimed at interventions in the supply chain and communication to Company 
employees.
In addition, Snam plans adopt new supplier evaluation systems in future tenders 
capable of assessing the use of single-use plastic in packaging and promoting 
alternative packaging.
Key Performance Indicators (KPI)
KPI 
KPI  Activity 
KPI description quantitative  Sector
Year status
target
Reduction of the plastic quantity in 
2019 100% in 2023 Snam group
the packaging of industrial supplies
    Project in progress: multi-year objective
In order to correctly evaluate the  Snam also evaluates, in relation to the performance of the most important works 
environmental and safety aspects and  (compression systems or large natural gas pipelines), the direct and indirect 
impacts associated with its works,  economic and social impact on the territory and on the local communities 
Snam carries out preliminary analyses  with "Social Impact Assessment" tools and methods. Specifically, in 2019, the 
under the scope of Environmental  collaboration project with the Department of Economics and Management of 
Impact Assessment (EIA) and  the University of Brescia, for the revision of the methodology used adopting a 
Integrated Environment Authority  regionalised input-output model, was concluded. This model made it possible to 
(IEA) procedures, following which  evaluate the impact of a project, calculating the added value generated by the 
the administrations, both centrally  investment starting with the total value of production.
and locally, release the authorisation 
required by applicable law.
Environmen t 65