Hydraulic studies and mitigation measures, environmental 
restoration 
Some of the most obvious consequences of climate change can be observed 
in the increase of acute weather conditions, such as flooding, landslides and 
droughts. Increasingly prolonged heavy rain seasons cause serious erosion of the 
banks of waterways, especially in valleys and overflow areas, with a consequent 
direct loss of habitats and biodiversity.
In order to mitigate and reduce the risk of potential erosion and guarantee high 
levels of protection and security for the pipes, Snam has produced detailed 
studies of hydraulic characterisation of the waterways affected by project works, 
in order to increase familiarity with the water environment affected by the works 
and to be able to plan the most appropriate hydraulic restoration works. In the 
design phase naturalistic engineering techniques are regularly employed involving 
the joint use of inert materials such as gravel, earth and timber, combined 
with plants and/or parts of plants (cuttings), which, thanks to the progressive 
development of radical equipment, are capable of exercising an important 
consolidation and stabilisation action on the soil, at the same time increasing the 
drainage capacity.
The bank and riverbed reconstruction technique is normally adopted for the 
consolidation of the banks and the riverbed. It is usually called “breakwaters” and 
“covering the riverbed with boulders”, using natural rocks that are available 
locally. Thanks to this technique it has been possible to establish actions to 
protect the banks, prevent the risks of soil consumption and loss through erosion, 
conserve the environmental balance and guarantee excellent harmony and 
aesthetic-landscape integration in the natural environment in which the work is 
carried out. The combined use of cuttings and the planting of native plants and 
shrubs helps establish the naturalisation process and the preservation of the 
biodiversity of the areas. 
A recent morphological and hydraulic restoration through naturalistic engineering 
works was carried out in Sicily, in the province of Enna in the municipality of Piazza 
Armerina on the pipeline “Upgrading imports from Algeria to Italy - DN 1200 
(48”)”, which runs through the Schiavo stream, affecting a stretch of the valley 
floor about 1,500 m long. 
The bank reconstruction work with a covering of boulders fits perfectly in an 
environmental setting featuring undulating morphology with areas of grassland, 
meadows, arable land, hygrophilous vegetation and some sections of eucalyptus 
forests.
This work constitutes an important action for safeguarding the area from extreme 
meteorological events such as those that took place between 2016 and 2018 
during which there was very serious bank erosion.
66 Sustainability Report 2019