Letter to stakeholders 
Marco Alverà
Chief Executive Officer
Dear Stakeholders,  conversion to biomethane, and with various plants in the process 
of authorisation or construction. The final goal is to specialise and 
in 2019 we were the protagonists in the climate change challenge  increase expertise in the management and running of plants both 
and in accompanying Italy on its journey to decarbonisation. During  in the agricultural biomethane chain and the FORSU chain (organic 
the year we once again increased our investments intended for  fraction of municipal solid waste), perfectly complementary to 
energy transition and innovation, defined new and even more  the expertise of IES Biogas, the Snam subsidiary and leader in the 
challenging climate goals and we launched our journey for the  design and construction of biogas and biomethane plants in Italy 
discovery and introduction of new energy sources.  and abroad.
As part of the new Strategic Plan to 2023 announced in November,  Alongside this, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed 
we allocated over 20% of investments, equal to €1.4 billion, to  with the Infore Environmental Group, an environmental services 
the Snamtec project - Tomorrow’s Energy Company, in order to  company listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange, for potential 
increase Snam's presence in the biomethane sector, confirm its  joint initiatives for the development of biogas and biomethane 
commitment to sustainable mobility and energy efficiency and be  infrastructure in China. 
among the pioneers in the use of hydrogen as the clean energy  Investments in 2019 in the biomethane sector are integrated with 
vector of the future.  those planned for the sustainable mobility sector supporting the 
2019 has been another year with a strong focus on the issue of  increase in the Italian network of compressed natural gas and 
climate change, both in terms of public opinion and international  liquefied natural gas distributors. 50 CNG/L-CNG, biomethane and 
institutions and companies. With this in mind we set a target in the  bio-LNG filling stations were contracted at 31 December 2019 
Strategic Plan of reducing methane emissions by 40% by 2025 and,  through the subsidiary Snam4Mobility, the leader in solutions for 
for the first time, a target of reducing total CO  emissions by 40%  natural gas transport refuelling stations. Agreements were signed 
2eq
by 2030 (Scope 1 and 2 emissions). with Tamoil, in March 2019, and with IP, in July, for the creation, 
In order to achieve these challenging targets and promote  respectively of 5 and 26 new natural gas refuelling facilities in Italy.
interventions and initiatives to transform our infrastructure  As far as energy efficiency is concerned, the sector in which Snam is 
network focused on methane to an“energy” infrastructure for  already one of the leading Italian operators through the subsidiary 
transporting renewable gas and in combination with the electricity  TEP Energy Solution, we have implemented our role as a leader by 
grids. gaining control of TEA Servizi, an ESCO (Energy Service Company) 
The Business Unit Energy Transition, dedicated to new green  active in the design of thermohydraulic and electric plants and 
activities (biomethane, sustainable mobility and energy efficiency),  in the offering of energy saving solutions for public and private 
was established with the goal of building our future by focusing on  entities. Snam has also promoted awareness-raising initiatives and 
new businesses supporting energy transition.  training to strengthen the culture of energy efficiency and support 
As part of this, in November Snam completed the acquisition of a  the commitments undertaken by Italy in this sector.
stake of around 83% in Renerwaste, one of the leading companies  For Snam, 2019 was “the year of hydrogen”: we created the 
in Italy operating in biogas and biomethane infrastructure,  Hydrogen Business Unit, dedicated to the development of this 
which took place through the new wholly-owned company  clean energy vector, and, in April, we launched the first trial in 
Snam4Environment.  Europe of a mixture of 5% hydrogen and natural gas introduced 
Snam also signed a binding letter of intent aimed at negotiating  into the Snam transportation network at Contursi Terme (Salerno), 
and defining agreements to launch a strategic partnership in  doubling the mixture to 10% in December. Convinced of the 
infrastructure for biomethane from agriculture through the entry,  need to adopt this solution to accelerate decarbonisation, Snam 
with a 50% stake, into Iniziative Biometano, a company operating  organised The Hydrogen Challenge in Rome last October, an 
in Italy with five biogas plants, for which there is a plan for  international event during which hydrogen was discussed with the 
6 Sustainability Report 2019