Gender diversity initiatives
Gender-Equality Index  Valore D
Snam is included among the 325  Snam has been a Contributing Member of Valore D since 2017. A strategic 
global companies on the 2020  decision to support company's international growth now and in the future 
through the increasingly strong presence of women and colleagues of other 
Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index 
nationalities. This collaboration provided employees with the opportunity to take 
(GEI). The GEI tracks the financial 
classes to enhance the gender, generational and cultural diversity, to develop 
performance of the Companies most 
an inclusive culture, a factor of innovation, competitiveness and growth for 
committed to the promotion of 
people and businesses. In 2019 Snam took part in the inter-company training and 
gender equality globally, through the  mentoring programmes offered by the association and 3 in-house workshops 
development of dedicated policies  have been organised on the following subjects: Unconscious Bias, Happiness in the 
and initiatives and the transparent  Company and Organisational Leadership.
disclosure of information.  
The index is based on factors such  InspirinGirls  
This is an international campaign (promoted by Valore D) aiming to create 
as promoting female leadership, a 
awareness among young women of their talent freeing them of the gender 
commitment to reducing the gender 
stereotypes that hold back their ambitions.
pay gap and the culture of inclusion. 
The project involves female volunteers from different industries and professions 
sharing their professional and life experience with young girls in high school, 
building a practical bridge between school and the world of work. In 2019 Snam 
took part in the project with 70 female role models.
GROW - Generating Real Opportunities for Women 
The collaboration with the LUISS Business School continued through the Job 
Shadowing programme which gives female students the opportunity to shadow 
a top Snam manager for an entire working day. The objective is to promote, 
support and improve the personal and professional development of women with 
a particular focus on joining the job market and promoting their own professional 
career. In 2019 7 Snam managers and 8 students were involved.
Young women @ Snam 
A leadership development route was created for 20 young women working 
at Snam to improve their self-effectiveness and self-management, emotional 
intelligence for a more effective communication with their teams and enhance 
their leadership style.
“Women in Security”
Snam, together with the Associazione Italiana Professionisti Security Aziendale 
(AIPSA) (the Italian Association of Corporate Security Professionals) and Deloitte, 
organised the “Women in Security” initiative in Milan in June to promote gender 
diversity in the field of security. The event focused on comparing the human 
and professional experiences of women working in corporate and institutional 
security. During the initiative, two scholarships were awarded to young workers 
to attend a specialist course, organized by the University of Salento, about the 
security and the protection of critical infrastructures.
Socia l 75