involvement of institutions, associations and businesses from the  paying great attention and taking care over areas through the 
entire world.  implementation of environmental renewal and monitoring 
Snam also takes part in numerous institutional and association  activities. Snam has also recently launched the “Snam Plastic Less” 
discussions dedicated to hydrogen, including the Hydrogen  programme to reduce the amount of plastic used in the packaging 
Council, a global initiative launched in 2017 at the World Economic  of industrial goods.
Forum in Davos to create a coalition of leading companies  We have attached the same importance to the growth and 
committed to accelerating investments in hydrogen, and Hydrogen  development of our people who are at the heart of our corporate 
Europe, which brings together businesses, research institutes and  strategy by continuing to invest in training, with over 114 thousand 
associations at a European level. hours, in the Smart Working project and in the Welfare Plan. This 
Hydrogen, together with LNG and bio-LNG, could also play a  commitment has also been recognised under the scope of the 
vital role in the decarbonisation of maritime transportation: for  “Top Employers” ranking by Statista in conjunction with Forbes. 
this reason too we were the first Italian company at the UN in  Snam's efforts as far as gender equality is concerned have also 
September to join the Zero Coalition promoted by the Global  been recognised: since January 2020 we have been part of the 
Maritime Forum non profit organisation.  325 companies globally included in the Bloomberg 2020 Gender-
Our commitment on the climate change front was also  Equality Index (GEI).
demonstrated in the area of sustainable finance. In February 2019,  Our commitment to strengthening culture and awareness of 
Snam successfully concluded the issue of the first Climate Action  health and safety, vital for the outcome and success of our 
Bond in Europe for a sum of €500 million, the proceeds of which  activities, and demonstrated by the low accident indices recorded 
will be used to finance our green investments in biomethane  both for employees and contractors (0.59 frequency index and 
and in energy efficiency and those related to the improvement  0.05 severity index) is also ongoing.
of the environmental impact of our activities. Snam also recently  As confirmation of our sustainable development model, we 
became part of the Corporate Forum for Sustainable Finance,  have renewed our allegiance to the Global Compact principles 
an initiative of European businesses established with the aim of  and the SDGs defined by the UN. The performances achieved in 
creating a network for the exchange of ideas and proposals for the  terms of ESG have allowed our Company to be included in the 
development of sustainable finance, associated with projects that  most prestigious sustainability indices. Snam was included for the 
have a positive impact on the environment. Snam aims, through  eleventh consecutive year in the Dow Jones Sustainability World 
initiatives related to sustainable finance, to consolidate its role in  Index, as well as being confirmed in the top places in both the 
energy transition in Europe, promote market awareness of the  FTSE4Good and the CDP Climate Change.
company's ESG initiatives and investments and diversify its investor  At a time of great change, the year that has just ended 
base. demonstrated our desire to look at sustainability and the 
Snam is continuing with its commitment to integrate ESG factors  treatment of all our stakeholders as key elements of our business 
in its value chain: this year, it was the leading Italian listed company  model, aware of the fact that working together on shared goals 
to have an ESG committee within its Board of Directors for the  will contribute towards achieving the targets that we have set as 
integration of these issues into business strategies. In effect,  Snam and as a country, working together on the journey towards 
the committee not only supervises sustainability issues closely  decarbonisation.
related to the energy sector, but also issues of particular relevance 
and importance for Snam such as policies involving human  In the first months of 2020 In Italy, as in other countries of 
rights, business ethics, integrity, diversity and inclusion as well as  the world, a severe health crisis started due to the pandemic 
sustainable finance initiatives. As a testament to its commitment,  spread of the coronavirus. Since the first news in our country, 
in June 2019 Snam was nominated by the Integrated Governance  Snam established a cross -functional team for the management 
Index annual survey as the best Italian company for corporate  of the difficult time and implemented, with the extraordinary 
governance and integration of ESG (environmental, social and  contribution of all its people, necessary actions to ensure the 
governance) factors in corporate strategies.  service continuation and the country energy security. The 
In May, Snam was also mentioned in the document produced by  employees went on with their duties remotely working from 
the Japanese Chairman of B20 presented at the Tokyo Summit  home thanks to the Smartworking instrument, with a minimum 
as a "Tangible Example" of companies that set themselves apart  physical oversight to ensure operations. All of this made possible 
through their practical commitment in combating corruption and  thanks to the necessary information and technology tools. In 
in October 2019 it became part of the Leadership Committee  addition to being close to our people, we wanted also to help our 
permanently representing the Business at the OECD (BIAC) in the  Country contributing with a 20 million euro fund through our Snam 
Anti-corruption Committee. Foundation for initiatives in aid of the Italian health system and the 
As far as the environmental challenge is concerned, our  third sector which, working in a continuous and extraordinary way, 
commitment to the reduction of our CO emissions and protecting  face a situation of extreme emergency. 
2
the climate was renewed and we will continue to operate 
Letter to stakeholders  7