Main training initiatives
Hours provided  Participants 
4.028 hours of  Description
(no.) (no.)
training
 with 3.981  Technical training 47,705 8,023
participations on business 
Health, Safety, Environmental Protection 
29,755 5,580
ethics and anti-corruption have  and Quality training
been delivered in 2019
Managerial training 19,524 4,356
REMUNERATION POLICIES AND SYSTEMS
In Snam, merit is the basis of the administrative and reward practices, both in 
terms of professional development and career opportunities. At the same time it is 
a benchmark for people management to stick to fairness and sustainability criteria.
The remuneration systems are periodically updated based on the comparison 
with the reference markets as well as taking into consideration information 
from external stakeholders. In particular, these systems are meant to ensure the 
recognition of the results achieved, the quality of the professional contribution 
provided and individual development potential of the person. 
Incentive schemes for the different corporate population 
groups
EXECUTIVES 
The remuneration system breaks down into two parts: a fixed remuneration, with 
possible annual adjustments for merit or progression of roles/responsibilities, and 
a variable remuneration with incentives to promote professional contribution in 
the short-term, by assigning an annual monetary incentive (IMA), as well as in the 
medium-long-term, by assigning a long-term share-based incentive (ILT).
Claw-back mechanisms are also provided, to recover the variable portion if the 
resulting compensation is not due because it was earned based on targets that 
were attained as a result of malicious or grossly negligent behaviour or that were 
proven to be manifestly incorrect. 
The Total Reward Statement, an information package on the breakdown of the 
individual remuneration, guarantees the promotion and transparency of the 
remuneration system.
NON-EXECUTIVE PERSONNEL 
Snam adopts a short-term variable incentive system to reward the best 
performances and young resources with a potential for development. 
All companies in the Group anticipate a “Participation Bonus", instituted by the 
National Collective Labour Agreement, based on the performance of profitability 
and productivity parameters, measured in relation to the targets agreed upon 
every year between the company and the trade-union representatives.
Socia l 79