different locations in Italy. The "Match giving"initiative was  initiative plan that is accessible to everyone through the 
also introduced, a financial solidarity activity in which the  company intranet with the objective of disseminating the 
Snam Foundation doubles every monetary contribution  issues of sustainability, talks on climate change to the open 
made by employees. As far as the information format  journey on the issues of Diversity & Inclusion and take an in-
is concerned, the spread of streaming and webinars for  depth look into important themes through comparison with 
events has allowed the Snam Institute to develop a training  other companies or experts.
Channels and main internal communication activities in 2019
Hard copy instruments   Meetings for sharing and  
 “Easy” the intranet portal
and video screens engagement 
The portal is available to all the  The magazine “Energie” represents  With an Online Webinar presenting the strategic plan, the 
company personnel. It is a website  the company's corporate identity and  CEO illustrated the pillars of the new plan, directly answering 
for information and raising  is the voice of the main events during  the questions posed by employees.
awareness and a tool for sharing  the year. The spotlight in 2019 was on  “Auguri In Rete” is the end of year event with video-
know-how and moments of work. new businesses. conferencing with the 10 Italian regional offices and the 
In 2019 the "Agile  re-design"  “Speciali Energie” (Energy Specials)  4 foreign headquarters (Tirana, Athens, Vienna, Beijing). 
project was launched for the  are attached to the "Energie" magazine  During the 2019 event, efforts were focused on corporate 
creation of the new portal, which  or distributed independently, focusing  sustainability.
involved around 80 employees  on specific topics.  The Pulse Survey was sent to all employees to evaluate 
through focus group activities as  As well as the “Osservatorio  company initiatives. The results were presented to the CEO 
they are the intended users. Domanda Gas” newsletter, with  via a webinar and, later on, focus groups were organised, 
The new version of the portal will  news, analysis and comments on  with 420 people involved to identify improvement measures.
be available from the second half  gas demand, a new, two-monthly  The second edition of the initiative #Storiedivalore is part 
of 2020. newsletter was created, InRete, about  of the activities for communicating the company's values and 
the transportation network activities. business purpose. The 4 colleagues winning the contest flew 
to Dublin and visited the Linkedin headquarter.
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
In 2019 Snam maintained ongoing relations with the Trade  fitted with a tracking device which is helpful to monitor the 
Unions both at a national and at a local level through  network and the assets in general.
many meetings dedicated to comparing various business  Regarding the regasification business, meetings were held 
development projects already consolidated and those  with the Trade Unions, nationally and locally, in order to share 
launched recently. and discuss topics involving the business development.
Specifically, the “Integra” project concluded the integration  The discussion continued for the definition of productivity 
journey between the commercial and physical Dispatching,  and profitability indices for Performance-Related Pay for 
optimising transportation and storage activities. The work  2019 for all the Group companies and the good results for the 
of the "Smart Gas" and "Smart Gas Plants" projects technical  2018 bonus were recorded. All the Group companies signed 
committee continued, seeking a more rational scheduling of  the implementation agreement pursuant to Article 4 of Law 
the operations with the objective of analysing the technical  92/2012 for the early departure in 2019 of an additional 110 
aspects of the projects. The "Tracking Vehicles" project was  employees who were eligible. The parties signed the new 
introduced through a trade union agreement that allowed the  trade union agreement on smart working methods extending 
pool of vehicles involved in transportation activities to be  it to the entire corporate population.
Labour disputes (no.)
2017 2018 2019
Total disputes pending at 31.12  29 13 13
Opened during the year 32 51 (*) 15
Closed during the year 12 67 15
(*) 46 disputes filed in 2018 are to be attributed to joint responsibility in procurement
Socia l 85