Snam Foundation
In over 75 years of history, Snam has 
contributed to innovation, progress 
and social growth in Italy, constructing 
and managing complex infrastructures. 
Cortile dei Gentili
Inspired by the Snam's infrastructure 
The Cortile dei Gentili is an initiative of the Pontifical 
mission, working for the development  Council to support children from disadvantaged areas. 
of the social system through the  In 2019 the Foundation supported two of the main 
construction of networks and listening  initiatives of the Cortile aimed at collecting funds in the 
cities of Milan and Rome. The Foundation also took part 
directly to stakeholders, the Foundation 
in the organisation of “Treno e della nave dei bambini”, an 
makes corporate, methodology and 
initiative in which 400 children from disadvantaged areas 
managerial expertise available as well 
of Liguria, Sardinia and Campania were taken to meet the 
as the ability to attract investments and  Pope.
develop relational networks. 
The Snam Foundation plans to 
redevelop the most vulnerable areas of 
the country, specifically by protecting 
and looking after the landscape and 
environmental heritage, as well as 
Corvetto Adottami
developing cultural and social activities 
A three-year initiative involving local communities to 
in every expression.
contribute to the redevelopment and social development 
The Snam Foundation, acting as a 
of the Corvetto district of Milan. The programme involves 
system integrator, promotes specific  three areas: social innovation, fighting education poverty 
initiatives in different areas putting  and improving the environment and energy efficiency. 
itself forward as a connecting element  The project aims to consolidate existing initiatives in 
the area together with the Cariplo Foundation and, 
between Snam and the social sector.
specifically with the “LacittàIntorno” and “Qubì” projects, 
with the Municipality of Milan and the network of local 
associations.
In 2019, workshops were launched for social inclusion 
at the Candia institute and activities were launched for 
directing and supporting young people not in education 
or at work (NEET*), and young people (aged between 14 
and 17) at great risk of dropping out of school. In addition, 
“Tesori - Terre Solidali in Reti Inclusive” in a joint project with a network of its regional parties and 
An initiative launched in conjunction with Confagricoltura  suppliers, Snam created the “Tappeto Volante” (Magic 
in 2017 to use certain Snam company assets, in particular  Carpet), an urban regeneration project that unites the 
unused land, making them available to local communities  Tommaso Grossi Institute with the Emilio Alessandrini 
to implement projects that disseminate practices of social  Park. 
inclusion for frail subjects, associated with the agricultural  In November 2019, on the Company Volunteering Day, 
sector.  Snam and the Foundation brought together over 60 
In 2019, projects were supported in 2 areas, Recanati  people including colleagues, students of the Polytechnic 
and Ronco all’Adige. In the former, a small industrial  and startuppers in a hackstorm dedicated to creating a 
pasta factory was created, which will house students for  sustainable business model for the social partnership 
professional internships and educational workshops, while  committed to redeveloping the covered market in piazza 
in the latter, structures were installed for pet-therapy  Ferrara.
activities and hydroponic cultivation, aimed at supporting 
the rehabilitation of people with mental health difficulties. * Not Engaged in Education, Employment or Training
86 Sustainability Report 2019