THE RELATIONSHIP WITH SUPPLIERS: FROM 
QUALIFICATION TO THEIR MONITORING
Qualification 
To guarantee a stable and long-lasting relationship with its supply chain, 
Snam acts ahead of the procurement process, paying a great attention when 
evaluating the suitability of aspiring suppliers. 
The qualification process is aimed at verifying the current capacity of the 
supplier and its future potential, in accordance with the criteria such as 
objectivity, transparency and traceability of the evaluations made. There are 
many factors subject to evaluation: technical and management skills, economic 
and financial reliability, ethical and reputational risk, commitment to anti-
corruption, environmental protection, the promotion of healthy and safe 
working conditions and the absence of forced labour and economic exploitation 
of minors. Specifically, there are further requirements for the most critical 
product categories, such as, for example, a management system certified in 
accordance with international standards such as ISO 9001 and 14001 and OHSAS 
18001.
International standards ISO  ISO  OHSAS 
9001 14001 18001
requirements for the most 
critical product categories
Throughout the supplier selection and qualification phase, Snam, in line with 
the Social Supply Chain policy published in 2018, promotes the inclusion of 
companies belonging to the voluntary sector, such as cooperatives, non-profit 
companies and associations, incentivising its suppliers to, in turn, adopt similar 
practices and thereby multiplying the effect. In 2019, new social businesses 
joined the vendor list and were awarded contracts for the provision of services 
worth over €300 thousand. 
In particular, these social useful players are involved in activities such as 
gardening services, the digitalization of corporate processes and catering 
services. Snam, thanks also to the support to external specialized providers, is 
committed to increase the number of these social useful players to be involved 
in these activities.
In order to ensure the adequacy of the pool of suppliers in terms of current and 
future procurement needs, Snam is constantly conducting market intelligence 
research and scouting for new suppliers. The streamlining of procedures 
carried out in 2019 made it possible to considerably reduce the time needed to 
complete the entire supplier qualification process. Specifically, during the year, 
the number of spontaneous applications receiving from aspiring suppliers was 
980, 260 of which were contacted regarding approximately 70 different product 
categories and 110 new applicants were qualified.
+42% 
of qualified 
At the end of 2019 a total of 2085 suppliers were qualified (+42% compared 
suppliers in 2019 compared to 
to 2018) and the qualification of 722 existing suppliers was renewed or newly 
2018 qualified (+18% compared to 2018).
Socia l 91