The regulation and quality 
of services
Snam is committed to provide and improve its services for customers with a 
view to efficiency, continuity, transparency, quality and a focus on the market, 
promoting collaborative relationships with regulators and institutions and 
guaranteeing adequate economic returns to make the investment strategies 
sustainable.
The tariff criteria are usually  Regulation in Italy
defined every four years and  Tariff regulation is an essential element capable of developing the infrastructure 
guarantee the coverage of  capital from an economic perspective, necessary to direct investments to the 
operating costs, depreciation/ network. To date, the 96% of Snam revenues are from regulated activities.
amortisation and a fair  Snam interacts actively with the Italian Regulatory Authority for Energy, Networks 
remuneration of net invested  and the Environment (ARERA) as follows:
capital.  •  responding, directly or through trade associations, to public consultations 
There are also differentiated  that the Authority holds in relation to the various activities of the industry, 
incentives depending on the type  in preparation to define new standards or to review the standards in force; 
of investments made during each  •  participating to the technical round tables established by the Authority, 
regulatory period.  regarding the development of the regulatory framework;
Every year each Snam company  •  drafting amendments to the Transportation, Storage, and Regasification 
formulates a tariff proposal which  Network Codes, subsequently submitted to the Authority for approval; 
is submitted to the Authority for  •  participating to the collection of data and to the investigations carried 
approval. out during the year to assess the state of the industry or of the individual 
services and to periodically send the data requested in compliance with the 
reporting obligations.
In 2019, Snam contributed to the development of the regulatory system by 
providing the Authority with several contributions and proposals. Specifically, 
the activity involved the definition of tariff criteria and the quality of the 
transportation, storage and regasification services for the fifth regulatory 
period, both as part of the public consultation processes and through 
specific meetings. In this context, given Snam's role in the country's journey 
to decarbonisation, the innovative use of the transportation network and 
technologies for the integration of renewable gases (such as, for example, 
biomethane and hydrogen) were being closely examined. From a perspective of 
the development of the regulatory system with arrangements that introduce 
cost/benefit analyses (output based), Snam has developed a cost/benefit 
analysis methodology, through a process open to the participation of all the 
stakeholders involved, for new investments in transportation infrastructure, 
later approved by the Regulator. A monitoring report was also prepared for 
the Authority on the status of the existing infrastructures in order to consider 
appropriate incentivisation mechanisms for keeping fully depreciated assets in 
operation. In 2019, the inclusion of the new gas settlement framework, in force 
from January 2020, was also completed.
Regarding the services offered, new storage products and new market-based 
regasification capacity allocation methods for LNG terminals have been 
introduced aiming at meeting and supporting the ever increasing needs for 
flexibility for infrastructure users. Lastly, Snam contributed to the total redesign 
of the settlement arrangements to promote a better allocation of the quantities 
of energy withdrawn from the network by its customers.
Socia l 95