Relations with the ARERA
Description Transportation Storage Regasification
Responses to consultation documents and service proposals (no.) 5 2 2
Tariff proposals (no.) 4 3 2
Data collections (no.) 137 45 24
Investigations (no.) * 0 0 0
Proposed changes to codes and contractual documents (no.) ** 6 4 0
Proposal to amend approved contractual documents and codes (no.) 6 4 0
* Information sent to the Authority in the current year with reference to investigations in the sector. Includes fact-finding investigations.
** This also includes proposals still being assessed by the ARERA, including agreements and contracts with operators regarding regulated services.
GAS MARKET MONITORING
Under the scope of its evaluations of the wholesale gas  the system and the flexibility of procurement sources; iii) 
markets, the Authority gave a mandate to the Energy  further specific analyses at the request of the Authority. 
Market Operator, as far as competitive aspects of the  Specifically, in 2019, according to its provisions, 15,600 
gas market are concerned, and to Snam, as the leading  data flows and periodic reports, as well as analyses 
transportation business, to support it with monitoring  conducted in relation to the services (transportation, 
activities through: i) the preparation of an integrated  storage and regasification) were sent over to the Authority 
database of transportation and balancing, storage and  in support of the Regulator's activities.  Agreements, 
regasification services, made available to the Regulator  manuals and dedicated technical specifications to manage 
and supplied on a daily basis; ii) availability of indices and  these activities are shared with the GME and approved by 
scheduled reports as part of the balancing function, the  the Authority.
balancing of 
Developments in Europe
In Europe there is an extensive discussion ongoing on  renewable gases and supporting the energy system jointly 
the role of gas in the future energy mix and how the new  with the electricity sector (sector coupling).
renewable energy vectors (green gases) can support the  Snam played an active role in this process making 
energy transition process.  contributions, both through the industry associations it is 
In 2019, the European Commission launched numerous  a member of (e.g. ENTSO-G, Gas Infrastructure Europe and 
studies and analyses to identify a package of measures,  Hydrogen Europe), and directly, through the development 
outlined in the European Green Deal in December  of specific evaluations based on the requirements 
2019, aimed at the total decarbonisation by 2050.  received from the European Commission and European 
Specifically, the main expected development for the  Regulators (CEER/ACER). 
gas infrastructures involve the possibility of embracing 
96 Sustainability Report 2019