THE BALANCING OF THE SYSTEM
In 2019, the integration process through which the commercial management 
Thanks to the development of the  activities of the three businesses - transportation, storage and regasification - 
Snam services over the last fifteen  merged into a single organisation continued, allowing the optimisation of the 
years, the Italian gas market has  processes within Snam. 
seen a constant growth in the 
transportation operators, from 30   The creation of a single Commercial Control Room for the management of daily 
in 2003 to around 210 in 2019, with  gas deliveries and movements, the balancing of the network (activities that define 
150 shippers. Snam's responsibilities to the market), the integration of the know-how of the 
In 2019, 123 connection contracts  three businesses managed by Snam, has led to an improvement in performance in 
were signed for the construction  this area. 
of new delivery/redelivery points  In detail, Snam daily receives the nominations of the transportation and storage 
(of which 26 were for biomethane  capacities from its customers. In confirming these requests, the Control Room 
injection and 61 for the CNG Service  discharges, among other things, the specific disclosure obligations set out by 
Areas) or the upgrading of existing  the Balancing Network Code (EU Regulation 312/2014), such as the hourly 
points.  publication on the Snam website of the information concerning the balancing 
status of the system, as well as the publication, twice a day and for every shipper, 
of information on the withdrawals measured during the gas day. The new 
commercial Control Room pursues and facilitates the goal of improving the 
One of the main activities of the  quality of service provided to customers, also reducing management times. In 
Control Room, working 24/7 to  this way, customers which, according to the balancing regime in the Balancing 
oversee the Italian gas system, is  Network Code are responsible for the daily balancing of their positions, receive 
the balancing of the system which  adequate information to enable the evaluation of their status and potentially 
has a dual purpose: physical and  undertake actions aimed at correcting their imbalances.
commercial. 
The physical balancing of the 
system consists of the set of  FLEXIBILITY AND DEFAULT SERVICES
operations through which the 
Dispatching department of Snam  To promote a greater operational flexibility of the Italian gas system, the 
controls flow parameters (capacity  possibility of booking transportation capacity on a monthly and a daily basis as 
and pressure) in real time in order  well as an annual basis was introduced at the redelivery points that supply gas 
to ensure that gas can move safely  directly to the thermoelectric power plants, only paying for the quantities booked 
and efficiently from the injection  and not the service for the entire thermal year. This type of access allows for 
points to the withdrawal points all  a more flexible allocation methods to respond promptly and efficiently to the 
the time.  electrical system’s changing operating conditions.  
The commercial balancing on 
the other hand consists of the  For the thermal year 2019-20 as well, Snam Rete Gas will perform the role of 
activities required to correctly  Default Transport Provider with regard to retail companies and end users of its 
schedule, account for and allocate  network for which the balancing user responsible for the withdrawals cannot be 
the transported gas, as well as the  identified. The same service is also carried out for the sales companies and final 
fee system that encourages users  customers at third-party transporters who explicitly requested it. In the thermal 
to maintain a balance between the  year 2018-2019, this service involved 112 subjects among end users and retail 
volumes they inject and withdraw  companies, for volumes of approximately 323,000 MWh.
from the network.
In 2019, the allocations for storage capacities, like the transportation business, 
were incorporated in the European PRISMA platform. This synergy helps customer 
to use the sole platform for booking transportation and storage capacity and 
makes Snam's storage capacity more transparent at a European level. Thanks 
to Snam's ongoing commitment to meeting its customers different needs, 
the flexibility of the services offered, and constant, accurate information is 
guaranteed through dedicated studies. 
Socia l 97