FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
Independent auditor’s report on the consolidated non-
Auditor’s Independence and Quality Control
financial statement
pursuant to article 3, paragraph 10, of Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 and article 5 of CONSOB  We are independent in accordance with the principles of ethics and independence set out in the Code 
Regulation No. 20267of January 2018 of Ethics for Professional Accountantspublished by the International Ethics Standards Board for 
Accountants, which are based on the fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, competence and 
professional diligence, confidentiality and professionalbehaviour. Our audit firm adoptsthe
International Standard on Quality Control 1 (ISQC Italia 1)and, accordingly, maintains an overall 
To the Board of Directors of FincantieriSpA quality control system which includes processes and procedures for compliance with ethical and 
professional principles and with applicable laws and regulations.
 
Pursuant to article 3, paragraph 10, of Legislative Decree No. 254 of 30 December 2016 (the “Decree”) 
and article 5 of CONSOB Regulation No. 20267/2018, we have been engaged to perform a limited  Auditor’s responsibilities
assurance engagement on the consolidated non-financial statement of FincantieriSpAand its 
subsidiaries (hereafter the “Group”) forthe year ended 31 December 2019prepared in accordance with  We are responsible for expressing a conclusion, on the basis of the work performed, regarding the 
article 4 of the Decree, and approved by the Board of Directors on 1April2020(hereafter the “NFS”). compliance of the NFS with the Decree and with the GRI Standards. We conducted our engagementin 
accordance with the “International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000(Revised)–
Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”
Responsibilitiesofthe Directors and of the Board of Statutory Auditorsfor the NFS (hereafter “ISAE 3000 Revised”), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards 
Board(IAASB) for limited assurance engagements. The standard requires that we plan and apply 
The Directors areresponsible for the preparation of the NFS in accordance with articles3 and 4 of the  procedures in order to obtain limited assurance that the NFS is free of material misstatement. The 
Decree and with the “GRI-Sustainability Reporting Standards”defined in 2016andsubsequent  procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement are less in scope than those performed in a 
versions (hereafter the “GRI Standards”),set out in the paragraph “Methodological note”of the NFS  reasonable assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 Revisedand, therefore, do not 
identified by them as the reporting standards. provide us with a sufficient level of assurance that we have become aware of all significant facts and 
circumstances that might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement.
TheDirectors are also responsible, in the terms prescribed by law, for suchinternal controls as they 
determine is necessary to ensure that the NFS is free from material misstatement, whether due to  The procedures performed on the NFS were based on our professional judgement and consisted in 
fraud or unintentional errors. interviews, primarily withcompany personnel responsible for the preparation of the information 
presented in the NFS, analysis of documents, recalculations and other procedures designed to obtain 
Moreover, the Directors are responsible for identifying the content of the NFS, within the matters  evidence considered useful.
mentioned in article 3, paragraph 1, of the Decree, considering the activities and characteristics of the 
Group and to the extent necessary to ensure an understanding of the Group’s activities, its  In particular, we performed the following procedures:
performance, its results and related impacts.
1. analysisof the relevant matters reported in the NFS relating to the activities and 
Finally, the Directors are responsible for defining the business and organizational model of the Group  characteristics of the Group, in order to assess the reasonableness of the selection process used 
and, with reference to the matters identified and reported in the NFS, for the policies adopted by the  in accordance with article 3 of the Decree and with the reporting standard adopted;
Group and for the identification and management of risks generated and/or faced by the Group.
2. analysis and assessment of the criteria used to identify the consolidation area, in order to 
The Board of Statutory Auditorsis responsible for overseeing, in the terms prescribed by law,  assess their compliance with the Decree;
compliance with the Decree.
3. comparison of the financial information reported in the NFS with the informationreportedin 
theFincantieriGroup’s Consolidated Financial Statements;
4. understanding of the following matters:
− business and organisational model of the Group, with reference to the management of the 
matters specified by article 3 of theDecree;
− policies adopted by the Groupwithreferenceto the matters specified in article 3 of the 
Decree, actual results and related key performance indicators;
− main risks, generated and/or faced by the Group, with reference to the matters specified 
in article 3 of the Decree.
With reference to those matters, we compared the information obtained with the information 
presented in the NFS and carried out the procedures described under point 5 a) below;
2of3
206 207