FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY
Our business model due to the strategic business area and  For us, a company is sustainable when it 
product type, for each order we develop  generates value with the future and not just 
We are able to produce different types  directly project management, design,  the present in mind, namely when it also 
of units at the same time, and we have  hull procurement and manufacture, while  generates value for those who come after 
the flexibility to cope with any changes  our role mainly involves integration and  us. To do this, we work so that every person 
occurring during construction. Our products  coordination of a qualified network of  in the Group understands the value of being 
feature a high level of personalization and,  expert suppliers for the preparation of  sustainable and reflects in their everyday 
in many cases, are prototypes with cutting- systems, accommodation and, for naval  work the fundamental principles of social 
edge technological solutions. As such, they  vessels, weapons systems. In terms of  responsibility, undertaking and contributing  We are also committed to contributing to 
require significant efforts in terms of design,  business model we have adopted a make or  to satisfying the stakeholder expectations  the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
procurement, production, planning and  buy strategy for each step of development  today and tomorrow, creating a virtuous  of the United Nations 2030 Agenda for 
order management. We act as a systems  and construction of the vessel order, with  cycle that generates synergy and shared,  Sustainable Development, approved by 
integrator, usually acting as the prime/ the objective of keeping core skills and high  proactive commitment. Sustainability is not  the General Assembly in 2015. These are 
general contractor, managing the project  value-added activities within the Group and  just an opportunity but a duty and a real  common sustainable development goals for 
for vessel construction as a whole and  outsourcing to qualified suppliers specialist  mission to represent a model of excellence  today’s complex social challenges. These 
taking on responsibility for this. activities that are low value-added or non- in the world. Being sustainable means  goals are an important reference for the 
Typically, while there are differences  essential. constantly improving health and safety in  international community and for Fincantieri 
the workplace, developing technological  in conducting its business.
innovation, promoting a responsible supply 
chain, maintaining customer satisfaction 
and trust, engaging with local communities 
BUSINESS MODEL: SUMMARY DIAGRAM
by supporting them and, last but not least, 
reducing environmental impact by helping 
to combat climate change. This is all with 
the aim of finding a tomorrow that is better 
than today.
DESIGN
As a sign of our commitment and the 
importance of increasing integration of 
sustainability in our strategic choices, in 
CONTRACT  PROJECT GUARANTEE AND  2019 we joined the United Nations Global 
FINANCING PRODUCTION
ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT AFTER SALES
Compact, the most wide-ranging business 
sustainability initiative in the world. This is 
a voluntary initiative to adopt ten universal 
principles related to human rights, labour, 
PROCUREMENT
the environment and the fight against 
corruption, which promote the values of 
sustainability in the long term through 
political actions, business practices and 
social and civil behaviour.
For more information on the business model, see the website www.fincantieri.com/en/group/business-model
18 19