FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
In particular, we are in constant dialogue  Fincantieri in the media  In 2019, we involved our employees,  To define the most significant topics we 
with investors, analysts and rating agencies,  customers, suppliers and partners, the  analysed both the perception of the topics 
providing reliable information on the Group’s  An important role in spreading the  financial community and other stakeholders  from the Company’s perspective, through 
activities so as to increase the market’s  sustainability culture is played by the  in helping us understand where we can and  a questionnaire, and from the perspective 
confidence in us and create long-term  Marketing Communication and Media  should make the most impact, in an initial  of customers, suppliers and partners, the 
relationships. The annual occasions where  Relations department in conveying all the  path of engagement that we are committed  financial community and other stakeholders 
shareholders meet the Company’s top  messages, which originate from direct  to developing over time. We have identified,  through a special online survey, asking them to 
management are the Shareholders’ Meeting  dialogue with management both inside and  together with them, the material issues  evaluate the material topics identified by the 
and Investor Day. Over the year we organized  outside the Group.  considered relevant for both the Company  Company. 
148 events for groups and individuals,  In 2019, the initiatives promoted, in particular  and its stakeholders. Both internally and externally the topics were 
including teleconference meetings and visits  by the Media Relations office, have produced  evaluated on a scale of 1-4, where 4 is "highly 
to facilities. numerous articles that mention Fincantieri,  significant". A materiality threshold was 
We also dialogue with national and  divided as follows: Which material topics have been identified  defined (corresponding to 2), beyond which 
international legislators and institutions to  by our stakeholders? an issue must be accounted for.
NUMBER OF ITEMS
maintain constructive collaboration, interpret   
and apply new regulations correctly and  We launched and have since consolidated  Joint consideration of internal and external 
TV & RADIO
share expertise, initiatives and projects. We  of which 37% on  over time a process called materiality  significance led to the identification of the 
2,000
sustainability issues
contribute to public consultations defining  analysis, aimed at identifying material topics  material topics. The materiality matrix has 
new legal measures and regulations for the  for sustainability, namely those topics that  been updated based on the responses of the 
PRINT
industry, providing practical indications. 7,200 are relevant from an economic, social and  stakeholders contacted and a new material 
of which  44% on 
To support the development of its business,  sustainability issues environmental point of view for Fincantieri  topic deemed relevant by both the Company 
Fincantieri S.p.A. and its subsidiaries  and its stakeholders. We use the results of the  and the stakeholders has been added: cyber 
participate in the governance of various  analysis to define the Group’s commitments,  security.
national and international associations,  Another important tool in Fincantieri’s  the objectives of the Sustainability Plan and 
stimulating, along with the other associates,  communications strategy is use of social  the reporting of the Sustainability Report.
effective, systematic action in the areas of  networks. In 2019, there were about 25,500 
research and development and promotion of  articles online.
PROCESS FOR STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ON MATERIAL TOPICS - 2019
the various stakeholders’ interests.
The main organizations and associations  FOLLOWERS ON SOCIAL MEDIA 
with which we actively collaborate are 
Confindustria, Federmeccanica, ASSONAVE,  LINKEDIN  with over 147,000 followers
  (+50,000 compared to 2018)
Federazione del Mare, Euroyards, Vessel for  231 STAKEHOLDERS 
  with over 170,000 followers  INVOLVED
the Future, Surface Navy Association, etc.   when we also include subsidiaries  
For more information on memberships and participation 
in associations, see the website www.fincantieri.com/en/ INSTAGRAM with over 24,000 followers  17 MATERIAL TOPICS  NEW MATERIALITY  APPPRROEVSAEZNIOTNATEI DOAN  PTAORTE APPROVAL BY THE BOARD 
sinu-satsasionacbiaitliitoyn/sgovernance/memberships-and-participation-   (+11,000 compared to 2018) IDENTIFIED MATRIX THDEE LS UCSOTNASIINGALBIOI LDIITY  OF DIRECTORS
AMMCOINMISMTIRTATZEIEONE
  with over 46,500 followers 
We meet regularly with our customers,    when we also include Fincantieri 
  Yachts
employees and representatives of the  17 TOP MANAGERS 
INVOLVED
communities where we operate in the pursuit 
YOUTUBE  with over 6,000 followers 
of constant collaboration and continuous    (+ 2,200 compared to 2018)
improvement.
24 25