FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
Which are our sustainability objectives?  commitments undertaken by Fincantieri are  objective from the 2018-2022 Business Plan;  generally to the Group’s growth;
broken down in the Charter of Sustainability  it comprises 17 material topics such as the  • the other 11 material topics are associated 
Through the Sustainability Plan we highlight  Commitments into qualitative and  materiality matrix and 32 objectives to be  specifically with one of the 4 Pillars and 
our strong intention to be a responsible  quantitative targets that can be measured  achieved in the short, medium and long term.  show a clear correlation between the 
Group, whose policies are aimed at  over time. With the integrated strategy  business drivers and those aspects of 
generating and distributing increasing  (Sustainability Plan and Business Plan)  The 17 material topics for Sustainability  sustainability that the Company recognises 
resources to all stakeholders and with a  we are able to manage its response to the  are linked to the 4 Pillars of the Business  as significant;
commitment that is first and foremost  challenges posed by the market of today  Plan (Long-term visibility, New horizons  • Fincantieri’s objectives contribute in 
shown in the sustainable management of its  and tomorrow in a sustainable way. and markets, Innovation, Streamlined  particular to the achievement of the 6 
business. It is the Group’s strategic approach  production). In particular: SDGs that Fincantieri has recognised as 
to sustainability and it addresses some  The Sustainability Plan has been updated  significant for its business and in line with 
global challenges (the UN’s Sustainability  with the integration of the new material  • 6 material topics are horizontal in that  its strategic direction.
Development Goals - SDGs) and the  topic of cyber security, acquiring the  they involve all 4 Pillars and contribute 
STRATEGIC DIRECTION AND SUSTAINABILITY
BUSINESS PLAN SUSTAINABILITY PLAN
4 Pilastri  6 Horizontal topics 11 Specific topics
7. Protection of employment and industrial relationships 
Long term visibility 1
Governance and business integrity 8. Training and education
Backlog supported by positive underlying momentum, 
9. Diversity and equal opportunity
particularly in the cruise segment
10.  Company welfare Growth
2
Cyber security
New horizons and markets
Expansion into new geographical areas and development   3 11. Customer satisfaction 
of after-sales services Economic and financial sustainability
Innovation 4
Climate change 12. Product quality, compliance with technical standards Shareholders
Proven capability to develop cutting-edge designs and  13. Innovation, research and development return
technological solutions to meet clients’ evolving needs 14. Environmental impact of products and services
5
Relations with local communities
Streamlined production 15. Health and safety in the workplace
Continued focus on seamless execution through streamlining  6 16. Procurement activities
Human rights
of processes and production 17. Environmental management Profitability
32 33