FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
Remuneration policy  Policy is aimed at achieving the Company’s  The structure of the remuneration package is set out below.
strategic priorities and enhancing sustainable 
TYPE OF REMUNERATION   PURPOSE POSITIONS INVOLVED
Fincantieri’s Remuneration Policy is approved  performance.
annually by the Board of Directors, on the  In continuation of the LTI Plan 2016-2018,  Fixed remuneration Remunerates the role and more  • Chairman
proposal of the Remuneration Committee.  on 27 March 2018, the Board of Directors  specifically the responsibilities  • Chief Executive Officer
assigned to the recipients, taking  • Non-executive Directors
The Board of Directors is also the company  approved the LTI Plan 2019-2021 which 
account, among other things, of the  • General Manager
body responsible for proper enactment of  essentially follows the same structure though 
experience, quality of contribution  • Executives with Strategic 
the Policy, that relies on the support of the  with the addition of another objective  made to achieving the business  Responsibilities
Remuneration Committee, which acts to  associated with sustainability.  results and level of excellence with  • Other Key Executives
provide consultancy and proposals.  The creation of sustainable value in the  respect to the assigned duties.
The adequacy, overall consistency, and  medium to long term, alignment of the 
Short-term variable  Remunerates results achieved  • Chairman
concrete application of the Remuneration  interests of management with those of 
remuneration (annual  in the short term and is aimed  • Chief Executive Officer
Policy are evaluated by the Remuneration  the shareholders and support for retention  MBO) at expressing the industrial plan  • General Manager
Committee, as recommended by the  capacity are the primary objectives of  strategies into a series of annual,  • Executives with Strategic 
individual and group objectives,  Responsibilities
Corporate Governance Code and as indicated  this Plan, in line with the indications in the 
capable of decisively influencing  • Other Key Executives
in the regulations for the Committee. The  Corporate Governance Code and the best and 
the performances of the executives 
Remuneration Committee consists of four  most widespread market practices. involved.
non-executive members, three of whom 
are independent and at least one of whom  Medium-long term  Remunerates results achieved in the  The beneficiaries are individually 
variable remuneration  medium-long term and is aimed at  identified at the discretion of the 
has adequate knowledge and experience in  PAY-MIX 2019-2021 LTI 
(Performance Share Plan) improving the alignment of interests  Board of Directors, on the advice of 
finance or pay policy, evaluated by the Board  of the recipients with those of  the Remuneration Committee, among 
of Directors when nominated.  the shareholders and supporting  the following persons: 
The parties covered by the Remuneration  the retention capabilities for key  • Chief Executive Officer
resources. and, according to the Chief Executive 
Policy are the Chief Executive Officer, the  25.0% 41.8% 38.0% 36.0% 29.9%
Officer’s indications, the following 
Chairman, the General Manager, Executives 
persons: 
with Strategic Responsibilities and other Key  75.0% • General Manager
Executives. 19.9% • Executives with Strategic 
22.0% 20.3%
Responsibilities
Management of the Remuneration Policy  21.8%
50.2% • Other Key Executives
is delegated to the Chief Executive Officer,  40.0% 43.7%
36.4%
supported by the Human Resources 
and Industrial Relations Management.  For more information, see the Remuneration Report available on the website
www.fincantieri.com/en/governance/remuneration
Verification of the qualitative and quantitative 
Chairman Chief Executive  General  Executives   Other Key 
performance objectives and consequent  Officer Manager with Strategic  Executives
Responsibilities 
determination of any sums of money due 
to the interested parties is performed 
following approval of the financial statements  FIXED COMPONENT
for the year following verification by the  SHORT TERM VARIABLE COMPONENT
Chief Executive Officer. The Remuneration  MEDIUM-LONG TERM VARIABLE COMPONENT
42 43