FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
OUR RULES ON FAIR CONDUCT
We believe that success can be long lasting  We conduct our business with respect for  Code of Conduct application, and these corporate bodies/
only with responsible, ethical business  the law, internal regulations and professional  officers may also make proposals to 
management; the Group’s actions are  ethics. To this end, we have developed a set of  All those who work for Fincantieri, without  supplement or amend its provisions.
performed with integrity, honesty and  policies and guidelines that support us in our  exception or distinction, are committed to 
The Code of Conduct is available on the website www.
dedication and based on mutual trust, so  activities and which are described in various  observing and ensuring the observance of the  fincantieri.com/globalassets/sustainability2/business-
ethics/fincantieri_code_of_conduct.pdf
that growth is also guided by the principle of  chapters of the Sustainability Report. company’s Code of Conduct, which, for the 
shared values. smooth operation, reliability and reputation 
of the Group, requires that all the activities 
are conducted in compliance with the law,  Organizational Model 
with international conventions and in strict 
accordance with the human rights enshrined in  Fincantieri has adopted an organization, 
the UN Universal Declaration.  management and control model according to 
Operating according to the principle of fair  Legislative Decree No. 231/2001 (Organizational 
competition, with honesty, integrity, fairness  Model), the latest version of which was approved 
Charter of Sustainability  and good faith, respecting the legitimate  by the Board of Directors on 14 February 2019. It 
Code of Conduct  Commitments interests of our stakeholders, shareholders,  consists of a general section, which illustrates the 
Policy on Human Rights – 
employees, customers, commercial and  principles, departments and basic components 
commitment for the respect
financial partners and of the general public  of the Organizational Model, and special parts, 
of human rights and diversity Suppliers’ Code of Ethics
and local communities in which we conduct  which identify the activities at risk of crime, 
our activities is fundamental for the smooth  the principles of conduct, and the control 
Fincantieri Group’s Policy
operation, reliability and reputation of the  procedures for the specific types of crimes 
Corporate Security  on initiatives for the
Group, but at the same time represents a key  considered relevant.
Policy Community and Territory
asset for Fincantieri’s ongoing success. In 
no way does the conviction of acting in the  The Organizational Model is available on the website www.
fincantieri.com/globalassets/sostenibilita2/business-ethics/
fincantieri_modello-231-parte-generale_feb2019_en_pubbl.pdf
CODES AND POLICIES interest or advantage of the Company justify 
Anti-corruption  adopting conduct that goes against these 
Policy Purchasing Policy
principles and all conduct contrary to the 
words or spirit of the Code will be subject to  Anti-corruption Policy
Environment, 
sanctions as mentioned in the Code. 
Health and
We are committed to encouraging and  Given the extensive geographic context in 
Privacy Policy Safety Policy
promoting knowledge of the Code among  which we operate, the Company has adopted 
employees and with all parties who have  a number of internal rules aimed at identifying 
Safety Policy Quality Policy business relations with Fincantieri and we  and applying a global anti-corruption policy 
monitor observation of the Code, providing  that defines the expectations for conducting 
suitable tools for information, prevention and  business operations in strict compliance with 
control, and ensuring the transparency of  the best international standards on anti-
existing operations and conduct. corruption legislation. The Group’s commitment 
The Board of Directors and the Company  to combating corruption - established in primis 
management is responsible for verifying  by the Code of Conduct - is reflected in a series 
the Code of Conduct’s implementation and  of corporate documents that are its existing 
46 47