FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
FOR THE ECONOMY AND THE MARKET
We believe in an economy that is a system of relations based on trust  of collaboration between large Italian  heritage at the disposal of the city and the 
and transparency, an integrated dynamic network of cross-cutting  companies that are mutually supportive  country.
communities, built over time to create and exchange value of each other, placing a unique industrial 
In recent years, new technologies and  Salini Impregilo, a leading partner and 
changes in people’s behaviour have led to  company in the sector with which it set up 
structural changes in many industrial sectors,  the consortium PERGENOVA. The latter’s 
resulting in the emergence of new markets,  mission is to give back to the city of Genoa 
growth and employment opportunities,  the viaduct over the Polcevera river, which 
but also to the need to adapt the business  collapsed following the tragedy on 14 August 
model in order to seize all the opportunities.  2018. Fincantieri Infrastructure contributes 
in this case by pooling the entire know-how 
In this context, our business model -  of the Fincantieri Group: the Valeggio sul 
diversified by end markets, geographical  Mincio shipyard produces the metal sheets, 
areas and customer portfolio - is able to face  beams and semi-finished products which 
new challenges by seizing all opportunities  are then assembled at the Castellammare 
without ignoring their social and  di Stabia and Sestri Ponente shipyards. 
environmental implications. Our goal always  The latter shipyard will also support all 
remains that of combining business with  operations in logistical terms given its 
reducing environmental impact, meeting the  proximity to the bridge site.
needs of local communities and improving  In addition, the technological skills of the 
the safety of our people and our suppliers.  automation, safety and monitoring systems 
of the Group’s various subsidiaries will also 
We are committed to developing and  be integrated.
promoting innovative solutions that  The reconstruction of the bridge is destined 
contribute to the achievement of the UN  to become the symbol of the rebirth of a 
2030 Sustainable Development Goals  great city like Genoa, but also the symbol of 
(SDGs), through a structured organization,  a new phase of the country’s development. 
the activation of virtuous ecosystems, and  It will show that also in Italy, thanks to 
by leveraging on access to new technologies. a virtuous collaboration between the 
public and private spheres, it is possible 
With this in mind, we are also actively  to build infrastructures with certain times 
involved in the construction of the new  and costs, from the stage of identifying 
Genoa Bridge, a project that Fincantieri  the needs to execution. The hope is that 
Infrastructure manages together with  the Genoa project can represent a model 
60 61