FINCANTIERI GROUP
Thanks to the adoption of a strategic  Regional Employment Centre which, in 
approach to the market, over the years  many cases, ended with them being hired 
we have evaluated and finalized several  by Fincantieri or by satellite businesses. 
M&A transactions and acquired entire  Some resources were included in pre-hiring 
companies in financial difficulties but with  training courses aimed at acquiring the skills 
solid industrial backgrounds, also giving  of the main shipbuilding trades (e.g. welders, 
priority to direct hiring or hiring through  carpenters, pipers) which the Region is 
our chain of subsidiaries belonging to the  promoting in collaboration with Fincantieri.
Group. These actions have enabled us to 
safeguard know-how, strengthen our skills  In order to relaunch the shipbuilding hub 
and support the economic system of the  in the port of Palermo, a protocol of intent 
territories in which we operate. By way of  was signed between the Authority of the 
example, Fincantieri Infrastructure took  Western Sicilian maritime port system and 
over the company Cordioli & C. s.r.l. of  Fincantieri, with the shared objective of 
Valeggio sul Mincio from the extraordinary  establishing the Sicilian site as one of the 
administration procedure managed by the  most important centres in the Mediterranean. 
Ministry of Economic Development, in order  The Palermo site also completed the process 
promoting the transfer of technology and  entire families and territories and contribute  to increase its expertise in the construction  for RINA to issue OHSAS 18001 and ISO 
knowledge aimed at fostering independent  significantly to employment growth and the  and major works sector and help safeguard  14001 certificates of conformity, the highest 
local development even in non-European  positive evolution of the socio-economic  dozens of jobs. As part of the same  international standards of health and safety 
countries with different levels of economic  context of the areas in which we operate. operation, Fincantieri Infrastructure started  at work and environmental protection. 
development. Moreover, this preventive  In cases of business reorganization (mergers,  to refurbish the industrial buildings of the  With this result, the company arrived at full 
model also allows us to address possible  acquisitions, etc.), we try to safeguard our  former Cordioli plant, equipping them with  coverage of all the Group’s certified Italian 
risks related to climate change. people by, if necessary, assigning new tasks  new technologically advanced equipment  production units.
with targeted training or retraining, based on  for cutting, welding and processing 
We are present in different geographical  each person’s ability and experience.  steel, even for large thicknesses, and  We have also signed a preliminary 
areas of Italy and the world, some of  We also pay close attention to the  therefore rebuilding a solid production and  cooperation agreement with Cassa 
them in precarious or developing socio- professional capital that a territory is able  employment base.  Depositi e Prestiti (CDP) and Snam aimed 
economic contexts, characterized by a  to express and try to enhance it as much  In addition, it is worth mentioning that since  at identifying, defining and implementing 
limited presence of large companies, a  as possible. In this context, Fincantieri  early 2019, Fincantieri has been working with  strategic medium-term projects in some 
large number of small enterprises, where  purchased a majority share of the capital  the Friuli Venezia Giulia Region, and more  key segments for innovation and the 
employment rates and the labour market are  of Insis, a company based in Follo (La  specifically with the Central Directorate for  development of the Italian ports and the 
not very dynamic and not always evolved.  Spezia), operating in the IT and electronic  Work, Training, Education and Family, in  development of sustainable technologies for 
This involves a considerable investment in  sectors, that employs a total of around  order to encourage the redeployment of  sea transport, in line with the Proposals of 
terms of both organizational and economic  100 people, 70% of whom are engineers,  unemployed staff who have left companies  the National Integrated Plan for Energy and 
resources in order to address and make  system engineers and specialist technicians,  in crisis in the area. The activity, in particular,  the Climate (PNIEC). Fincantieri and Snam 
up for the shortcomings of infrastructure  namely a pool of expertise that is difficult to  involved the over 150 workers of the  will share their technical expertise by setting 
networks and the lack of a widespread  find on the market or one that can only be  company Eaton s.r.l. who participated in  up dedicated working groups and CDP will 
business culture. Through our shipyards we  developed internally over a particularly long  a selection process with Fincantieri, the  support, from an economic and financial 
are able to guarantee economic stability to  period of time.  economic satellite businesses and the  perspective and in line with its institutional 
64 65