FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
mission, projects that have positive effects of  with the creation of social value in the long  and in line with the provisions contained in  We pay great attention to the search and 
public interest. term. Such a vast geographical perimeter  the Integrated Environmental Authorization,  selection of long-lasting partnerships with 
necessarily implies confronting different  the Company has undertaken, in addition to  those who contribute to the creation of 
Our economic contribution in the various  enterprises and an in-depth knowledge of  an extensive investment programme at the  our products and services and represent 
countries where we are present is also  the territory and the needs of the various  Monfalcone site, to replace the windows and  us in the world. Working with our suppliers 
expressed at tax level and is divided into  stakeholders in order to identify targeted  doors in some of the houses most exposed  has an additional positive impact on the 
various types of taxes, which can be  solutions. to the noise generated by the shipyard’s  communities in which we operate by 
grouped into the following categories: production processes. This work will take  creating jobs and increasing our partners’ 
For this reason we try to reduce our impacts  place during 2020 under the coordination of  business volumes.
• income tax, corporation tax; through responsible management, helping  the Municipality of Monfalcone. The initiatives implemented by the Group 
• property taxes, charges on ownership, sale  the institutions in the territories where we  In addition, the company is transforming the  for the individual stakeholder groups are 
or lease of property; are present. area of the former railway into a cycle path  described in the various chapters of this 
• taxes on labour, including taxes collected  and has arranged free buses to reach the  Report.
and paid to the tax authorities on behalf of  Numerous initiatives have been implemented  shipyard from the external parking areas.
employees; in the Monfalcone area, where one of  Also at the Monfalcone site, a project has 
• indirect taxes levied on the production and  our most significant shipyards is located.  been developed to provide healthcare 
consumption of goods and services, such  Fincantieri and the Municipality of  directly on site to non-resident staff in 
as VAT, customs duties, etc. Monfalcone, sharing the need to increase  order to reduce the impact on the hospital's 
local school facilities, also caused by the  emergency services operating units, 
In the spirit of the Code of Conduct, we  impact of the population active in the  improving the quality of the service offered 
are committed to acting with honesty and  shipyard, have conducted a feasibility study  to each worker concerned and at the same 
integrity in all tax matters and aim to pursue  for the renovation of a building, owned by  time ensuring prevention and diagnostics. 
a transparent and sustainable long-term tax  the Municipality, to be used as a nursery 
strategy. We are committed to complying  school. The project envisages the creation  Fincantieri signed a joint working agreement 
with legislation in all jurisdictions in which we  of a number of classrooms equipped with  for charitable purposes with the Banco 
operate, working closely with tax authorities,  all the necessary services, potentially able to  Alimentare (Food Bank) of the Liguria and 
tax advisors and auditors to ensure payment  accommodate about one hundred children.  Marche Regions and with the companies that 
of the taxes due. After the Agreement is signed, scheduled  provide catering services at the canteens in 
for spring 2020, Fincantieri will return the  the Muggiano and Ancona shipyards. Under 
Our massive presence in the territories  property to the Municipality of Monfalcone,  these initiatives, which replicate similar 
where we operate certainly generates  renovated and adapted for the new use, in  experiences already underway at the Sestri 
benefits, but it can also cause inconvenience  time for the start of the 2020/21 school year.  Ponente and Riva Trigoso shipyards, the 
to the local population. For this reason we  Fincantieri has also undertaken to bear the  Company donates the food not eaten at the 
are committed to respecting the rights  operating costs with a contribution for the  shipyard canteens in order to redistribute it 
of communities and contributing to their  first three years of activity. to charities that support and help the poor 
economic and social progress, interacting  and, more generally, people in need. Further 
with a variety of stakeholders on a daily  We are also strongly committed to reducing  agreements with the Food Bank or other 
basis. The search for shared value for the  the environmental impacts, generated by our  associations will be concluded during 2020, 
Company and its stakeholders represents  activities, on the community. As part of the  where locally compatible.
an opportunity to combine competitiveness  noise reduction plan adopted by Fincantieri 
66 67