FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
FOR INNOVATION
Innovation is growth and we never cease to innovate environmental challenges of our time. implementing our strategic vision by 
We have set ourselves the objective of  focusing our Research and Innovation 
process on five fundamental pillars:
Green Ship
Eco-sustainability
WE ARE INNOVATORS and energy efficiency of ships 
Our main objective has always been to keep 
our world leadership in all the high value-
added segments of the shipbuilding industry.  The main objective we have set ourselves in 
Our competitive advantage lies in our  order to direct our work strategically in the 
capacity to provide highly technological and  near future is the definition, shared with our 
customized solutions and is evident whenever  European partners, of a vision of innovation  Smart Offshore Infrastructure Smart Ship 
Introduction of innovative 
The digitization
the need to apply solid know-how in system  trajectories in the shipbuilding industry.  solutions supporting
of ships
the Blue Economy
integration emerges. This is confirmed by our commitment in the 
recent definition of the Strategic Research  5 PILLARS OF RESEARCH
AND INNOVATION
We have repeatedly confirmed our position  Agenda (SRA) of WATERBORNE, the 
as one of the most competitive global players,  European Research and Innovation Platform 
thanks to our flexibility and ability to adapt  for Waterborne Industries. The work was 
to significant and cyclical changes in market  carried out in collaboration with the main 
needs. These fluctuations require a continuous  associations in the industry to outline the  Smart Yard
Development of facilities and  Autonomous Ship
process of change that generates product  prospects for collective development in the 
processes more efficient, safe and  The automation of ships
innovations, applicable to all types of ships,  coming years. In particular, WATERBORNE’s  sustainable 
and process innovations, which are necessary  SRA proposes to radically transform 
in order to apply new technologies and  waterborne transport by giving new impetus 
recover productivity.  to European leadership in high value- In order to be strategically valid for the  and fields of interest. We are constantly 
added ships. This will be feasible thanks  Group, each research project pursues at  engaged in industrial research, experimental 
We aim to be proactive towards shipowners  to the definition of new business models  least one of these fundamental directions. development and process innovation 
by always offering innovative solutions that  aimed at supporting sustainable growth in  in order to improve existing products, 
anticipate future technological evolutions.  the shipping industry and the integration  RESEARCH AND  processes and services and to expand our 
DEVELOPMENT 
The constant updating of products and  of goods and passenger transport into a  knowledge base to support our entry into 
COSTS
processes is one of the fundamental values  seamless solution for shipping, ports and  promising new market sectors worldwide.
of Fincantieri that have led to it being one of  related logistics.
  134 
the most competitive players in its business  €  mln Long-term activities are defined, in 
globally. In this sense, the capacity to seize  In this context, innovation is a key element  agreement with the business units and 
on the promising synergies in terms of  for the European shipbuilding industry to  subsidiaries, starting from an analysis of the 
innovation at international level characterizes  continue to maintain a global leadership  economic and technological megatrends 
the Group’s actions and makes it gradually  position, demonstrating that it is fully able  that will be significant for the maritime 
more integrated with and sensitive to market  to handle the greatest technological and  Our Research and Innovation activities  segment over the next decade. 
dynamics. extend to various areas with different aims 
70 71