FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
WE COOPERATE IN ORDER TO CREATE VALUE
The Group develops the projects in the  objective of ensuring, in any case, that  In order to take full advantage of Research  We often promote long-term relationships 
Research and Innovation Plan with the  researchers collaborating in the projects  and Innovation processes, in addition to  through the creation of wide-ranging 
aim of ensuring a competitive advantage  have the freedom to publish by designing  making the most of our internal expertise,  cooperative development programs. 
for the Group and for the companies that  processes that allow us to quickly assess  we are aware of our role as an integrator,  Aware of the significant boost that these 
collaborated to achieve common results.  the advisability of filing patent applications,  wholeheartedly adopting the Open  can provide, we continuously aim to 
The value generated by Research and  and agreeing on a case-by-case basis on the  Innovation paradigm, researching and  expand our partnership networks at local 
Innovation projects is captured in particular  degree of abstraction of the publications,  proposing collaborations with partners  and international level, both within the 
through two fundamental processes:  so as to ensure effective protection of their  operating upstream in their own value  projects we finance independently and by 
technology transfer and intellectual property  industrial secrets. chain, or with other stakeholders working to  cooperating in the creation of consortia that 
management. innovate tools, products and services in the  respond to the innovation challenges raised 
The Parent Company’s patent portfolio  maritime field. by public actors, such as the Horizon 2020 
The first is a fundamental step to transfer  currently contains: programme. 
knowledge, even if intangible, into services 
and applied technologies aimed at a wider 
INNOVATION
audience of users. In particular, this phase 
38
takes place after each project is closed 
and is aimed at ensuring that the results,  PATENTS 20-30% 
14 70-80% OUTFITTING (Suppliers) PLATFORM 
including intangible knowledge, models and  (Fincantieri)
DESIGN
algorithms, are correctly transmitted to the 
MODELS*
relevant departments of all divisions. Once 
11
finalized, all the project documentation and 
the material produced are uploaded to a  REGISTERED 
special database which can be accessed by  TRADEMARKS
the designers after a simple request.
* of details of the hulls and superstructures of cruise ships
However, while enlarging the user base 
aids the marketing of the technology, if the  In conducting Research and Innovation 
intellectual property of the results attained  activities, we use the support of the CETENA 
from the research is not properly protected,  research centre. Thanks to its experience 
there is a risk that the competitive  in research and consultancy in the naval 
advantage obtained will be nullified. It is  and maritime field since 1962, this is the 
therefore essential to protect the intellectual  cornerstone of the Group’s pre-competitive 
property of the results obtained, delivered  research. CETENA’s main tasks range from 
through not only collaboration with suppliers  fluid dynamics to structural design, including 
but also joint work with universities and  the application of innovative materials, from 
research centres, assessing, on a case- energy efficiency and control of emissions to 
by-case basis, whether it is appropriate  safety issues, and from the development of 
to use it as an industrial secret or by  software and simulators to testing activities.
filing trademarks, patents and models. In 
this context, we have set ourselves the 
74 75