FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
ten universal principles relating to human  by the Ministry of Infrastructure and  between the training offered by universities 
rights, labour, the environment and the  Transport for innovation in the naval field. and the needs of employers, to improve the 
fight against corruption, through political  quality of training and research processes 
actions, business practices and social and  Our commitment to innovation also sees us  and to offer young people a series of 
civil behaviour. Fincantieri is the largest  engaging as partners of leading institutions  academic paths with innovative content to 
shipbuilder, and the first cruise shipbuilder,  of higher education. In fact, we have  prepare them for entry into the world of 
to adopt these principles in its strategy. signed an extensive agreement to establish  work.
new cooperative relationships in the civil, 
This important result on the external front  industrial and information engineering  Young people are therefore a resource 
was immediately followed by another  sectors with the University of Calabria, one  to be invested in with determination, but 
equally important one internally. We refer  of the largest universities in the South of  are certainly not the only target for our 
to the “Fincantieri for the green future”  Italy, which will allow us to tap into a pool  ambitious and worthwhile projects. Our 
campaign, aimed at increasing awareness of  of excellence in terms of academic and  reference communities, i.e. the populations 
environmental sustainability among all our  research standards, with students ready  of the areas where we are present, are in 
stakeholders, primarily involving our own  to take advantage of the opportunities  turn essential partners, and we constantly 
LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS
employees as well as contractor personnel,  that the Company can offer in Italy and  promote proactive initiatives to improve 
to encourage them to make a positive and  abroad. Moreover, our subsidiary Issel Nord,  their welfare, as well as the wellbeing of 
tangible contribution to environmental  which specializes in logistics engineering  our employees and their families. Among 
The 2019 financial year saw the publication  protection through their behaviour in  and high added value services, has been  the many projects of this type, we want 
of our third Sustainability Report. For  everyday life, not just in the workplace. working with the University of Genoa- to mention the extension of our charitable 
our Group, a new phase of further  Polo Guglielmo Marconi to develop the  projects to include local Food Banks for 
improvement is opening up, in which the  Let’s review some of the most important  "Integrated Product Support and Lifecycle  the recovery of food surpluses in Bari and 
issues of corporate responsibility have been  actions pursued during the year just ended.  Management” course: a new opportunity  Ancona, after starting similar projects 
introduced into business processes and are  In the field of Research and Innovation, 2019  for students of Master’s degree courses  in the Ligurian shipyards. Last summer, 
becoming increasingly harmonized with  saw us spearheading two agreements of  in Mechanical Engineering - Design and  together with the Municipality of Genoa, 
them. The stated objective is, of course, to  prime national importance. The first, with  Production and Yacht Design, which has  we inaugurated a summer centre that 
promote and consolidate a strong culture  Cassa Depositi e Prestiti (CDP), our main  obtained the direct patronage of the  welcomed not only the children of our 
of sustainability in a planned way, reflecting  shareholder, and Snam, in the key sectors  Product Support & Specifications Group  employees but also the rest of the city. 
Fincantieri's strategic vision. for the development of port facilities in Italy  of ASD, the AeroSpace and Defence  Finally, we have signed an agreement 
and sustainable technologies for maritime  Industries Association of Europe, and will  with the Municipality of Monfalcone for 
Last year, as part of this virtuous path,  transport, in line with the Proposal for an  also concern the software tools developed  the construction of a nursery school, 
we published the Sustainability Plan, a  Integrated National Plan for Energy and  by our Company. In agreement with the  committing ourselves to renovate a 
truly fundamental milestone, with which  Climate (PNIEC). The second, again with  Liguria Region, we have also helped to  building owned by the Municipality, with 
we stated our long-term commitments  CDP, together with Eni, lays the foundations  launch the “Senior technician for the  an investment totally at our expense of 
over a five-year period, and we achieved  for establishing a company to develop  production and maintenance of means  euro 1 million, in addition to the payment of 
all the objectives for 2019. A further step  and build power stations that use waves  of transport and related infrastructure"  management and consumption costs up to 
was taken by joining the United Nations  to produce electricity. We also presented,  course at the Accademia della Marina  a maximum amount of euro 300,000 per 
Global Compact, the world’s largest  in collaboration with the National  Mercantile (Merchant Navy Academy). All  year for the first three years.
business sustainability initiative. The  Research Council (CNR), the results of six  these initiatives concretely demonstrate the 
scheme involves voluntary adherence to  multidisciplinary research projects funded  Group's desire to create greater synergy 
4 5