FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
In embracing the Open Innovation model,  A common strategy: from global to local  European priorities for Research and 
we take into account a wide range of  level Technological Innovation.
stakeholders:
In the context of the Group’s collaborations,  The WATERBORNE Technology Platform, 
These take part in various collaborative  those activated to define our medium- which updated its Strategic Research 
projects, giving an important contribution 
to basic research topics. They cooperate  long term vision and to jointly define the  Agenda in 2019, played a key role in 
The activities aimed at identifying 
in the development of innovative ideas to 
transfer onto the product. the technological priorities to be  documents setting out the sector’s priorities,  proposing the establishment of the co-
developed in the short, medium 
and long term and that have highly  at local, national and supranational level, are  Programmed European Partnership 
NETWORK OF 
strategic importance and guarantee 
UNIVERSITIES AND  value added for future products. particularly important.  “Zero-emission waterborne transport” to 
RESEARCH
CENTRES be launched within the Horizon Europe 
These are involved in numerous 
In addition to maintaining a large number of  programme to develop solutions to 
projects to develop specific  SUPPLIERS CUSTOMERS
components. The innovation with  bilateral relationships with other companies  transform the waterborne transport sector 
suppliers process identifies partners 
with whom a common technological  in our sector, and with universities and  into a zero-emission sector towards the 
These are constantly involved in 
development strategy can be built.
the development of new prototypes 
research institutes, we are active in various  year 2050, in line with the objectives of the 
as well as in various collaborative 
TRADE research projects, supporting the  associations and forums, with the aim of  European Green Deal.
CLASSIFICATION  certification and approval processes 
ASSOCIATIONS AND 
SOCIETIES for new technologies. Cooperation is  both contributing to the definition of sector 
INDUSTRY FORUMS
facilitated by entering into specific 
agreements. roadmaps at a general level, and providing  Fincantieri has contributed to the policy 
START-UPS our contribution on individual technical  papers of the industry associations Sea 
Represent an attractive opportunity 
to exchange ideas aimed at  or technological issues, including through  Europe and Hydrogen Europe. The former 
consolidating a shared vision on the 
main Research and Innovation issues. the activation of pre-competitive research  is the European association of shipyards 
Constantly monitored, they often 
projects. and manufacturers of maritime systems, 
guarantee the first steps towards the 
industrialization of new technologies. while the latter is the European association 
During 2019, we actively participated in  representing the industry and research for 
the work of European sectoral technology  the development of hydrogen technologies 
associations. One of the most important  and fuel cells. In particular, Hydrogen 
We strongly believe in the possibility of  of collaborations and participations in various  strategic partners of the European  Europe, among its objectives, aims to 
creating value in a collaborative way and, for  industry round tables both in Italy and in the  Commission is represented by the European  support the launch of the institutionalized 
this reason, we have created a dense network  main countries where the Group operates. Technology Platform WATERBORNE, of  European partnership “Clean Hydrogen for 
which we are active members. The platform  Europe” in the Horizon Europe programme 
aims to maintain continuous dialogue  and to support the activities of the "Fuel 
between all stakeholders in the maritime,  Cells and Hydrogen" Joint Undertaking (FCH 
naval, port, logistics and blue growth fields  JU) of Horizon 2020.
(an expression that brings together various 
economic activities including, for example,  At European level, we also cooperate with:
fisheries, aquaculture, maritime tourism, 
maritime biotechnology, collection of  • EuroYards, the association of leading 
renewable energy from oceans, mining from  European manufacturers, where we 
the ocean floor), through the consolidation  actively contribute to the activities 
of a shared consensus aimed at identifying  of the technical committee and the 
76 77