FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
working group on product and process  of the regional territories in which the  In addition, VARD has recently joined the  Shipbuilding Research Program (NSRP) 
digitalization; Company is located. The districts involved in  Joint Industry Project (JIP), the Open  funded by the US Government in order to 
• the Cooperative Research Ships  cooperation relationships with the Group are: Simulation Platform, with the aim of creating  carry out research and innovation initiatives. 
consortium, which focuses on the study  an open source digital platform to be used  The NSRP project, founded in collaboration 
of hydrodynamic, structural and general  • Maritime Technology Cluster Friuli Venezia  during the development of new ships. with U.S. Shipyards, studies and develops 
issues related to large ships interpreted  Giulia (MareTC FVG); new processes and designs to improve ship 
both from an operational and design point  • Distretto Ligure delle Tecnologie Marine  production in the United States and make it 
of view; (DLTM); United States: the National Shipbuilding  more efficient. The activities carried out in 
• European Council for Maritime Applied  • Distretto Tecnologico Ligure sui Sistemi  Research Program  this context range from welding techniques 
R&D (ECMAR), sector association that  Intelligenti Integrati (SIIT); to design for maintenance concepts, via the 
aims to develop a common strategy for  • Distretto sull'Ingegneria dei Materiali  The American subsidiary Marinette Marine  study of strategies to reduce ship weight 
European research in the maritime sector. polimerici e composti e Strutture (IMAST); actively collaborates with research centres  and the implementation of innovative 
• Distretto Tecnologico sui Trasporti Navali,  and universities, through the National  coating solutions.
As part of our Italian activities, we have  Commerciali e da Diporto (NAVTEC).
contributed to the work of the Trasporti 
Italia 2020 NTC and the formation of the 
Blue Italian Growth NTC. During 2019,  Norway: the main partnerships 
following a participatory process, both 
clusters published their action plans for the  The Group benefits from the relationships 
three-year period 2019-2021. Fincantieri  that the subsidiary VARD maintains with 
actively contributed to the drafting of these  the Norwegian academic and research 
plans, whose contents were transferred into  world. Partnerships are active with the 
the contribution that the two associations  NTNU - the Norwegian University of Science 
made to the National Research Programme  and Technology - and the SINTEF - The 
(NRP) drafting committee.  Foundation for Industrial and Technical 
Research. The latter currently represents one 
At the Italian level, we also collaborate with  of the main independent research centres in 
AIRI, the Italian Association for Industrial  northern Europe.
Research, contributing to the definition of  This close cooperation has led to the 
the technical analysis documents, which are  establishment of two centres for research-
often taken as a reference for evaluating  based Innovation (SFI):
actions that support innovation, which are 
activated by public administrations. • Smart Marine SFI: the centre’s main focus 
is to increase the potential of the 
Over the year Fincantieri contributed,  Norwegian maritime sector within the 
through its representatives in the Italian  segment of sustainable waterborne 
regional technological districts, to the  transport;
analysis of the context and local application  • Move SFI: the centre’s activities are 
of the sector’s development strategies,  focused on increasing the value of 
contributing, in particular, to the definition  maritime operations by developing IT 
of intelligent development strategies (S3)  knowledge, methods and tools.
78 79