FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
OUR MAIN PROJECTS
In 2019, we have activated over 90 Research and Innovation  RESEARCH • PIAQUO - Practical  • ESS Control System  • DC Grid Power Analysis: the 
AND INNOVATION 
projects, funded through our own resources and through  PROJECTS Implementation of AQUO: a  (v2.0): the project, financed  project, financed internally 
Research and Innovation programmes funded at European,  cooperative project financed  internally by the subsidiary  by the subsidiary VARD, 
national and regional level. Some of the projects are carried  by the European LIFE  VARD, aims to study more  aims to optimize the Direct 
out through close cooperation with universities and research  90 programme, which aims to  capacious batteries, at a  Current (DC) grid through 
institutes, through the awarding of specific assignments  mitigate issues related to  reduced cost, combined  advanced techniques for 
or the funding of doctoral fellowships, research grants,  underwater noise and reduce  with an advanced  the simulation of micro grid 
or positions in partner universities. All the projects can  its impact on the marine  management and control  applications in the marine 
be classified within 5 development trajectories, which are  ecosystem by optimizing  system for energy storage  sector.
Fincantieri’s vision for the sector. propellers and developing  in order to guarantee longer 
a self-assessment model in  autonomy and improve 
real time. device safety.
Green Ship  Recent contracts, whether  • Technologies with low 
they are related to the  environmental impact:  Smart Ship for example) and to assess 
For the past several years,  sectors of new builds or  a project conducted in  and Autonomous the impacts of projects 
the concept of greening has  refitting, feature the use  cooperation with the CNR  Ship activated with the aim of 
established itself as one of  of advanced technologies,  and the Universities of  increasing digital integration 
the guidelines for innovation  such as liquefied natural gas  Genoa, Naples and Palermo,  In the context of the  to measures capable of  and on-board autonomy (the 
processes and has acquired  (LNG), batteries, modern  funded by the Italian Ministry  development model  improving the resilience  STESS project, for example). 
fundamental importance in  pollutant reducing and  of Economic Development.  proposed by the Industry 4.0  of ships, guarantee an  Great importance is given 
the eyes of the public. The  energy saving systems. The project sets out to  paradigm, the enhancement  increase of overall safety. to the modelling of possible 
European Union, with the  Fincantieri applies a holistic  realize a laboratory ship  of IoT (Internet of Things)  Lastly, one of the most  cyber attack risks and the 
recent European Green Deal,  approach in design and  approximately 25 metres  and smart devices has taken  interesting challenges  countermeasures to be taken 
the International Maritime  building, integrating in the  long to study power  on fundamental importance.  for the shipbuilding  both logically and physically 
Organization (IMO) and the  best way the systems on  generation technologies with  These are pervasive across all  industry is to develop  to prevent these eventualities. 
Cruise Line International  board, pursuing continuous  low environmental impact.  industrial sectors and ships  autonomous ships for use  The main projects related 
Association (CLIA), have  improvement in energy  • Sustainable Ship Design  are not exempt from this  in any operational scenario,  to these issues which are 
defined precise objectives to  efficiency and supporting the  Program: the project aims  “intelligent” revolution. The  including in busy port areas.  already active or in advanced 
reduce polluting emissions (in  introduction of new green  to create and validate a  improvement of monitoring  These concepts also have  state of preparation are:
particular CO ) for the next  fuels, technologies for de- holistic approach to energy  systems and operational  important repercussions 
2
decades. carbonization, including fuel  efficiency and emission  support systems give value  on maintenance and after- • OCEAN2020 - Open 
We consider Green Ship as  cells, as well as the study of  reduction in ship design, also  added to the whole ship  sales activities, as well as  Cooperation for European 
a milestone of our vision  high-performance materials. through a careful control  product and help improve  strong implications on cyber  mAritime awareNess: the 
and the activities carried  The main projects active and  of EEDI (Energy Efficiency  their global safety. security aspects. These  project is funded by the 
out in 2019 confirm this  related to these issues are: Design Index). The study of design and  aspects of the ship product  European Defence Agency 
commitment. operational solutions to  are studied and developed  (EDA) and its purpose is the 
reduce the frequency  both in specifically dedicated  integration of unmanned 
of accidents, in addition  projects (the ECHO project,  systems in addition to 
80 81