FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
the introduction and use  Economic Development,  • SAFEMODE - Strengthening 
of situational awareness  aims to develop prototype  synergies between Aviation  Smart pilot project started as part  • Marghera shipyard 
concepts in the maritime  technologies, guidelines and  and maritime in the area  Yard of the production process  production process 
environment. The project  processes that, in the future,  of human Factors towards  innovation project at the  innovation: a project, 
envisages the cooperation  will enable the offer and  achieving more Efficient  Marghera site. In the years  financed by the Italian 
of over 40 international  delivery of an overall after- and resilient MODEs of  We have set ourselves several  to come, the aim will be to  Ministry of Economic 
partners. sales service bundled with  transportation: the project,  development objectives  follow a ship throughout its  Development, aimed at 
• Integrated Bridge (SeaQ  Fincantieri products. funded under the Horizon  as regards safety and  entire life cycle, including  achieving the requirements 
Bridge): this innovative  • ECHO - European network  2020 programme, aims  productivity at work with  trying to facilitate the last  for yards and infrastructure 
solution allows the  of Cybersecurity centres  to develop a new design  a view to improving all the  phase - decommissioning -  for the construction of 
integration of a wide  and competence Hub for  framework for “HUman Risk  design and construction  studying new welding and  large ship sections in the 
selection of navigation and  innovation and Operations:  Informed Design” (HURID)  phases in the shipyard. The  joining procedures. The main  Marghera shipyard by 
communication solutions  project, funded under the  in order to identify, collect  introduction and application  projects active and related to  reviewing the layout and the 
in a system controllable  Horizon 2020 programme,  and assess human factor  of innovative computer  these issues are: production process.
from the vessel’s bridge.  aimed at developing a  data in order to provide  models, logistics and quality  • Monfalcone shipyard 
This allows a considerable  coordinated and structured  properly risk-based systems  control procedures in line  • RAMSSES - Realisation and  production process 
simplification of on- approach to proactively  deisgn and operative  with Industry 4.0 guidelines  Demonstration of Advanced  innovation: the project, 
board operations and a  increase the EU’s cyber  procedures. will drive the evolution of the  Material Solutions for  financed by the Italian 
consequent increase in  defence through efficient  • Smart Cabin (v2.0): the  shipyards of the future. This  Sustainable and Efficient  Ministry of Economic 
security. transectorial partnerships. project, financed internally  area has also given rise to  Ships: a cooperation project,  Development, has the 
• Cyber: project funded by  • FLARE - FLooding Accident  by the subsidiary VARD,  studies and developments  funded under the Horizon  strategic goal to innovate 
the Liguria region and  REsponse: cooperative  aims to expand the  related to the cyber security  2020 programme, that aims  the production process of 
aimed at studying different  project, funded under the  knowledge base in the field  aspects of production  to widen the application of  cruise ships, focusing on 
cyber security aspects for  Horizon 2020 programme,  of home automation in  processes, with particular  advanced materials in the  increasing the efficiency 
critical infrastructures. which aims to develop a  order to increase perceived  emphasis on the security  European maritime industry  and quality of the mounting 
• STESS - Systems and  methodology based on  quality and improve the  of Information Technology  by also carefully studying  and outfitting of the 
technologies to improve  risk analysis to assess and  onboard experience of  (IT) infrastructures and the  aspects related to industrial  sections to significantly 
after sales services: the  control the risk of flooding  passengers. OT infrastructures of the  methods. In particular, the  reduce dry-dock lead times.
project, financed by  in real time on board  shipyards (linked to the world  project sets out to analyse 
the Italian Ministry for  passenger ships. of Operational Technology,  the different applications 
such as, for example, the  of high-strength steel and 
networks that control  composites on board.
automatic machines), with a 
82 83