FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
e-Procurement  • requests for offers, made available to selected  suppliers to meeting all their legal  most recent company agreements. 
suppliers in digital format, to which they  obligations, in particular with regard to 
Fincantieri Suppliers is Fincantieri’s  can respond by sending their economic and  the rights of employees, starting from the  Indicators are used to monitor the supplier 
e-procurement system dedicated to supplier  technical offers on the same platform;  qualification phase - and their inclusion in  base, such as supplier turnover, employee 
management (www.fincantieri-suppliers.com),  • purchase contracts, digitally signed and made  the Register of Suppliers - and the awarding  turnover, employment contract type and 
providing support throughout all the stages of  available electronically to suppliers, who  of orders. Further controls are envisaged  geographical origin of the contracting 
procurement activities.  in turn can accept them directly on the  when entering the production sites and  companies’ personnel.
In line with the objective of strengthening  system without printing and sending paper  during the entire time they remain at the 
communication with our suppliers, the portal is  documents to Fincantieri. operating units. In particular, from January to December 
developed to manage the following processes: 2019, 2,292 companies entered the Italian 
Using the e-procurement system saves a lot of  These guidelines and trends were shared at  shipyards, of which 1,052 were not present at 
• marketing, offering the possibility to each  time, transport costs (and related emissions of  the trade union level and implemented in the  the beginning of the year. 
supplier to participate in the selection process  CO), printing and use of paper throughout the 
2
regarding Italy by registering on the portal; procurement process. NO. OF COMPANIES PRESENT  NO. OF OTHER COMPANIES THAT 
NO. COMPANIES THAT ENTERED 
PERIOD IN ITALIAN SHIPYARDS IN THE  ENTERED IN THE SUBSEQUENT 
ITALIAN YARDS IN 2019
MONTH MONTHS
January 2019 1,240 (A) - 2,292 (A+B)
February-December 
Management of contracting companies The prospect of stabilizing the supplier  2019 - 1,052 (B) -
base by pursuing long-term partnerships  The data refer to Fincantieri S.p.A.
The production process we have adopted is  with the consequent continuity in terms of  In the same period, the shipyards hosted  from EU countries (18.3%). Non-EU citizens 
structured to operate as an integrated model  worker presence in the individual production  42,455 employees of contracted companies,  totaled 29%. 
that makes use of skills, technologies and  sites is able to provide the best response  mainly Italian nationals (52.7%) or coming 
production capacities both inside and outside  to the expectations formulated by some 
the Company. institutional stakeholders in areas involved. ORIGIN OF WORKERS
The widespread participation of the  The continuity of companies and the 
ITALY
resources involved in company business  reduction of worker turnover can in fact  52.7% 1.7%
OTHER EU
processes and the sharing of common  allow local authorities to improve the 
18.3% 27.3% EUROPE NON-EU
principles, behaviours and objectives are  planning of infrastructure and social 
REST OF THE WORLD
fundamental for achieving continuous  services, as well as result in a more effective 
The data refer to Fincantieri S.p.A.
improvement objectives. We have therefore  management of integration policies. 
pressed on, in continuity with the guidelines  In the field of employment relationships,  the total, fixed-term contracts accounted for 
adopted in recent years, with significantly  We have signed further framework  permanent contracts accounted for 43.9% of  37.4%. Agency staff contracts accounted for 11%. 
reducing the supply chain in some specific  agreements with leading employment 
NUMBER OF CONTRACTING COMPANY WORKERS
activities (insulation, painting) and at the  agencies in order to make it easier for 
PERMANENT FIXED TERM AGENCY STAFF  OTHER TYPES TOTAL
same time we have intensified actions  satellite businesses to find qualified 
aimed at consolidating the relationship with  resources, also through specific training                      18,615 15,897 4,664 3,279 42,455
suppliers considered strategic, in particular  courses aimed at the most sought-after                     43.9% 37.4% 11.0% 7.7% 100%
The data refer to Fincantieri S.p.A.
for supply activities and turnkey contracts,  professional profiles.
through medium/long-term contractual  The entire supply process is subject to  The most prevalent nationalities (excluding  Romanians (13.3%).
agreements. controls and constraints that commit  Italians) were Bengalis (17.3%) and 
90 91