FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
HOW WE MONITOR THEM
Supplier qualification process  A stringent performance monitoring process  As part of the supplier monitoring system, 
QUALIFICATION OF SUPPLIERS IN THE REGISTER
is carried out so that suppliers can maintain  we use a continuous performance evaluation 
Development and efficiency of our  their qualified status and to promptly  system, in which all the relevant corporate 
supply chain start immediately at the  manage any critical issues. departments take part (balanced scorecard), 
1
supplier selection phase, which follows  A supplier remains qualified as long as the  in order to guarantee that the required 
a documented procedure in order  reasons for its inclusion in the Register of  standards are met over time. Through the 
INFORMATION 
to guarantee impartiality and equal  Suppliers continue to exist and until the  use of specific purchase methods adapted 
REQUEST AND 
opportunities for all the parties involved.  monitoring of its performance is considered  for the different product categories, we are 
COLLECTION
2 critical to the point of expulsion. committed to obtaining the best conditions 
Management and the continuous  We monitor the supply chain using a life  and performance throughout the entire life 
improvement of a pool of trusted and  cycle management approach to reduce  cycle of the product.
innovative suppliers is essential in order to  PREQUALIFICATION the environmental and social impact of a 
achieve the goals we have set for ourselves  product or service over its entire lifetime  SUPPLIERS EVALUATED
3
at Group level in economic and sustainability  to a minimum. In particular, sensitivity 
terms. Fincantieri’s purchasing office  towards and respect for the environment is 
provides suppliers with constant technical  spread along the whole production chain, 
VISIT TO THE 
 99%
support for all activities related to the  SUPPLIER and this has led to increasing exchanges of 
selection and qualification process, including  4 information and documents with suppliers.
those concerning sustainability. Fincantieri 
recognises that the supplier base is a  SUPPLIER MONITORING
significant asset for the entire company, and  QUALIFICATION
as such it should be valued and protected.  Of the 759 qualified strategic suppliers at 
1
This is why we have developed a stringent  the end of 2019, 99% were subject to an 
qualification and performance monitoring  evaluation, with the following results:
process for strategic suppliers, based on  MONITORING
the evaluation of economic, technical,  • 89% satisfactory; 
2
reputational, social and environmental  • 10% with some gaps that can be resolved 
aspects. by themselves; 
CRITICAL ISSUE  • 1% with serious issues, for which the 
In this sense, the collection of  MANAGEMENT adoption of an improvement plan or 
environmental and social information is  3 replacement is planned.
active during the pre-qualification stage, e.g. 
possession of environmental, health, work  Moreover, the main problems are examined 
ACTION 
safety and social responsibility certifications. through cross-involvement within Supplier 
MONITORING
Oversight, the body that gathers the 
4
different functions and departments 
and takes decisions resulting based 
SUPPLIER 
OVERSIGHT  on examination of these critical issues. 
MEETINGS Prominence is given to issues related to 
safety, the environment and protection of 
92 93