FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
labour rights, with specific focus on ethical  employees, and the existence of a structure  that should be valued and protected, also  contract award phase, in capital expenditure 
and reputational aspects during both the  dedicated to safety at work, takes place  so as not to compromise the trust placed  and in production activities, our Group has 
qualification and the monitoring phases.  during both the pre-qualification document  in us by our stakeholders, and by using a  established a stronger cooperation with 
These values are essential for the whole  collection phase and the quality inspection  risk intelligence based strategy we ensure  the local competent Prefectures, stipulating 
Group and are a priority in all company  phase at the supplier’s premises, as well as  that our supply chain leans towards more  Legality and Transparency Protocols, which 
decisions, including those relating to the  during entry in our shipyards. extensive compliance with regard to anti- since 2017 have merged into a National 
pool of suppliers.  money laundering, counter-terrorism, anti- Protocol. 
Evaluation of certain fundamental  For us business integrity and the ethical  corruption and sanctions at international  Data on qualification and monitoring 
aspects, such as the technical/professional  and reputational aspects that accompany  level.  activities in 2018 and 2019 are given below.
suitability of the company, the regularity  it are a constant guideline. We are aware  Furthermore, in order to prevent any 
of contributions and remuneration of  that corporate reputation is a strategic asset  possible infiltration of organized crime in the 
QUALIFICATION AND MONITORING ACTIVITIES
2018 2019
Total number of suppliers registered on the portal 3,387 3,727
Total number of qualified suppliers (strategic in the register) 744 759
Total number of qualified suppliers in the year  385 394
No. of new suppliers qualified in the year 82 54
% orders run through the portal 88.0% 90.5%
No. of audit visits carried out during the year 51 68
The data refer to Fincantieri S.p.A..
94 95