FINCANTIERI GROUP GFRIUNPCPAON TFIIENRCIA GNRTOIEURPI 
Alongside this there is constant dedication  them, as in the case of the stipulation of 
to the aspects of people's lives that are  an insurance cover specifically designed 
most closely linked to work in Group  for the COVID-19 health emergency, aimed 
shipyards around the world. In September  at all the employees of the Group’s Italian 
the Palermo site also completed the  companies and of the companies in the 
process for RINA to issue OHSAS 18001 and  supply network. In this context, Fincantieri 
ISO 14001 certificates of conformity, the  has currently suspended production 
highest international standards of health  activities at Italian shipyards as of 16 March, 
and safety at work and environmental  signing an agreement with the national 
protection: with this result the Company  trade unions, the cornerstone of which 
arrived at full coverage of all the Group's  is to guarantee continuity of production 
Italian production units. Looking overseas,  when they are resumed. Now, as is our 
however, we cannot fail to mention the two  custom, we want to look to the future with 
safety awards obtained by our Marinette  determination: we want to restart as soon 
shipyard, which in 2019 received both the  as possible, guaranteeing the health and 
“Excellence in Safety” and “Improvement  safety of our employees and those of the 
in Safety” awards from the Shipbuilding  companies in the supplier network while 
Council of America. maintaining the leadership, employment 
levels and credibility that Fincantieri has 
Once again it is worth pointing out that  earned with its domestic and foreign 
Fincantieri does not just see sustainability  customers - fundamental elements not only 
as an opportunity, but as a real mission  for Fincantieri and its system, but also for 
to achieve and represent a model of  the stability of the national economy. The 
excellence. challenge ahead of us is very tough, but we 
have emerged stronger from all the other 
In conclusion, we cannot fail to mention  crises we have faced, and this time, despite 
the situation that we have all been facing  the most serious emergency since the 
here for a few weeks now. Since the first  second post-war period, it will be the same 
signs of the COVID-19 epidemiological  again.
phenomenon, the Company has set up a 
crisis committee to monitor and coordinate 
the necessary actions. In this way we 
were able to promptly implement all the 
measures aimed at safeguarding the 
health of all workers, through initiatives 
in line with the indications given and the 
measures progressively adopted by the 
government, and often supplementing 
GIUSEPPE BONO
Fincantieri Chief Executive Officer
6 7