FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
We imagine a world where respect for the sea, the environment and  Our customers 
people is combined with technological excellence and where our products 
can be tools for sustainable growth We look towards the future, ready to take on new challenges in order to build the cruise 
ships, naval vessels, offshore units, ferries and luxury yachts of tomorrow. One of the keys to 
our success is our highly diversified activities in terms of final market, geographical area and 
customer portfolio. 
Each new ship is the flagship of our  and economic growth. Thanks to a pool of  The customers who purchase cruise ships produced by the Merchant Shipping Division of Fincantieri SpA and VARD are the 
CRUISE
leading cruise operators in the world. The customer portfolio has expanded considerably over the last few years, thanks to the 
capabilities’ progress, enhanced by a system  resources dedicated to naval research and  CUSTOMERS ability to design and build widely differing types of cruise ship, with strong customization by customer, geographical area and 
of selected suppliers that, with the best  design, we aim to create increasingly safe  market segment served.
craftsmanship tradition and the class of a  and environmentally sustainable ships. In our 
unique design, allow us to best interpret  strategies, we have embraced the objectives 
the style and needs of each segment.  of the International Maritime Organization  The customers who purchase the products of the Naval Shipping Division of Fincantieri SpA and Fincantieri Marine Group 
NAVAL
are government entities, both Italian and foreign, including the Ministry of Defence, the Navy, the Coastguard and all entities 
Technological development is essential  (IMO), summarized in the slogan “Safe, secure  appointed to make acquisitions in the Defence sector. CUSTOMERS
because it means market competitiveness  and efficient transport on clean oceans”.
FERRY Ferries designed and built by Fincantieri and VARD are intended for private and public clients, both Italian and foreign, 
operating mainly in the Mediterranean, the North Sea and the Baltic Sea, and meet the most demanding requirements in 
CUSTOMERS
this sector in terms of technological innovation, low environmental impact, energy saving and diversification.
The mega-yachts designed by Fincantieri are intended for private customers who fall into the category of  MEGA-YACHT 
ultra-high net worth individuals. CUSTOMERS
EQUIPMENT,  The Group offers its naval equipment, systems and components to the internal captive market and to other shipbuilders and industrial 
SYSTEMS AND  operators (such as, for example, engineering companies active in the installation of power plants as well as companies responsible for 
carrying out complex projects, for instance in the Oil & Gas sector). The main customers of these equipment, systems and components 
COMPONENTS 
include the customers of each of the other business sectors: civilian, naval and offshore. In addition, the main customers include 
CUSTOMERS shipbuilders and industrial operators.
The main customers of the Group’s offshore division are shipowners and charter companies that provide logistical support and 
services for the construction and operation of offshore facilities for companies active in the Oil & Gas industry. These also include  OFFSHORE AND 
large contractors specializing in offering turnkey services for the commissioning of large projects and offshore infrastructure, 
SPECIALIZED 
as well as the main drilling contractors specializing in the management of semi-submersible drilling vessels and platforms. In 
addition to the design and production of offshore support units, VARD also supports the production of special vessels, such as  VESSELS 
ferries powered by liquefied natural gas (LNG) or hybrid (battery) systems, mainly for shipowners in Northern Europe, and vessels  CUSTOMERS
used by customers active in the aquaculture sector and the maintenance and construction of offshore wind farms.
104 105