FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
A cruise ship is an ideal and self-sufficient  technological and innovative solutions  We are an accredited representative with  In particular, the SOLAS (Safety Of Life At 
floating city in constant communication  (in particular in the areas of safety, noise  the IMO, the specialized Agency at global  Sea) Convention aims to specify common 
with land. It is designed, built and managed  reduction, stability and ship operating  level for issuing directives on maritime safety  international standards in order to safeguard 
to respect the ecosystems of the areas in  speed) and the results they yield can be  and environmental protection. The main  human life at sea, establishing safety 
which it must operate and to safeguard the  used in the ship design. In this sense, each  conventions between the IMO’s member  standards for technical aspects and for 
health and life of those temporarily living  ship can be considered a new product as it  states are aimed at: the preparedness of personnel in case of 
there for work or fun, thousands of people  is the result of the combination of specific  emergency. All ships produced must comply 
from different countries and cultures, who  design activities in response to customer  • improving maritime security (mostly from a  with these rules, which are constantly 
live together and adhere to its rules of  needs and of research and innovation  safety point of view) – SOLAS; evolving.
governance.  activities. • limiting the pollution of the seas – MARPOL;
We oversee all stages of production,  The Group offers a diversified product  • standardizing maritime labour rules – ILO.
including design, supplier selection,  portfolio, which includes ships of very 
construction, commissioning, testing and  different sizes, from 10,000 to 175,000 gross  PRODUCT EVOLUTION: SAFETY AND RELIABILITY
delivery.  tonnage and with a length between 110 and 
The ships designed and built by the Group  345 metres, characterized by the diversity  Ships delivered  Ships delivered  Ships delivered  Ships delivered 
are not standard vessels; each one is a  and richness of the fittings in the hotel  before 2009 after 2009 after 2010 after 2024
tailor-made product that reflects the  part and the entertainment services offered  2009 2010 2024
specific needs of the customer. In addition,  to meet the needs of all types  Determistic damage stability Probabilistic damage stability SOLAS - Safe Return to Port SOLAS 2020
we carry out activities to develop applied  of customers.
Further class notations: Ships of 120 metres in length  Increased stability requirements 
Machinery availability.  or more or with 3 or more main  for new cruise ships in conditions 
Dual propulsion system. vertical zones (mvz) must be  of partial flooding (damage) 
Independent propulsion system. designed so that, in an emergency,  caused by collision and 
THE NUMBERS OF COMPLEXITY - What you need on average to build a cruise ship passengers and crew can remain  grounding.
on board and the ship can proceed 
to the nearest port.
MQ OF PUBLIC SPACE: KMs OF CABLE:
THE SIZE OF THREE MORE THAN 7 TIMES  HOURS OF
FOOTBALL FIELDS THE DISTANCE FROM  SHIPYARD WORK Commercial ships, including cruise ships,  such as docking in U.S. ports that follow U.S. 
3,800
ROME TO VENICE
22,000 must have a valid class certificate, issued  Coast Guard (USCG) rules or, if they relate 
after verification that they comply with the  to hygiene, food processing, environments, 
135,000 regulations of a classification body. The  accident prevention, and air conditioning 
2,000,000
primary aim of the classification body is to  systems, those of the U.S. Public Health 
DESIGN HOURS
ensure that ships are designed, constructed  Service (USPHS).
and maintained in such a way as to  In addition to being a product designed to 
minimize the risks to life, the environment  be safe, ships are designed and built for 
The Group is directly involved in the  is therefore a fundamental element, at a  and property. Achievement of the class  the comfort of everyone on board, whether 
development of international regulations  strategic and technological level, in the early  demonstrates that all the controls in the  passengers or crew members. There are 
for safety and our activities are carried  identification of possible trends in the market  various phases of the ship’s life have been  also dedicated relaxation areas, which may 
out in close collaboration with the flag  and of the emergence of new needs by  successful. include swimming pools, bars, gyms or 
agency, classification bodies, the sector’s  proposing solutions that are innovative and  All equipment and appliances installed  discos for crew members.
industrial associations, shipping companies  competitive at product level and comply with  on board follow the manufacturer’s or  The ships are designed to make more and 
and the main international research bodies.  the technical, economic and environmental  internationally recognized standards.  more spaces accessible to people with 
Monitoring of regulatory developments  feasibility standards at process level. Other regulations are determined locally,  disabilities, for example by providing easy 
108 109