FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
access with ramps, optical and acoustic  In naval shipbuilding, we are one of the few  Systems to improve air quality have been  from the preliminary phase of the project to 
warning systems and devices that facilitate  operators able to design and build a wide  introduced for the well-being of the crew  be flexible, modular and reliable, with low 
mobility and therefore allowing all travellers  and complete product portfolio that includes  and, where it has been possible to increase  environmental impact, easily reconfigurable 
to enjoy the full range of services available  surface combat vessels, auxiliary and  the well-being of the crew compatibly  and upgradable.
on board.  specialized vessels, as well as submarines.  with the vessel’s operational profiles,  In the event of an operation to support 
With regard to materials, the Company  Our ships are equipped with state-of-the-art  the following improvements have been  populations affected by a natural disaster, 
has adopted an internal procedure on the  command and control systems. Although  introduced: the new vessels will be able to provide 
“Asbestos Free Declaration” which aims  the Group assembles and installs armaments  drinking water, electricity and health 
to ensure that the products produced are  supplied by third parties in the process of  • increased air changes per hour for the  support through its own hospital facilities. In 
free of asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls  building and equipping its naval vessels  heating, ventilation and air conditioning  addition to the particular attention giving to 
(PCBs) and ozone depleting substances  according to the customer’s instructions, the  (HVAC) system; reducing emissions of fumes, the treatment 
(ODS). The procedure also defines the  Group has never manufactured and does  • increased fresh air supply for each air  of wastewater and the use of bio-fuels, 
components, structures and equipment  not manufacture armaments or weapon  change per hour for the HVAC system; the vessels will be able to intervene to 
that require the Declaration by suppliers. In  components itself. • extension of HVAC in some operational  contain a contaminated tract of sea, with 
addition, with regard to the management  As part of the general concept of the  areas (e.g. hangar); the possibility of collecting and stowing the 
of chemical products, suppliers must  naval vessel’s survivability, studies are  • increased liveability of the areas intended  polluting substances.
declare and ensure that their products and  being carried out to further reduce its  for the crew by ensuring more square  Consolidating the experience gained on the 
services are developed using only materials  vulnerability to cyber attacks. In addition, an  metres per person, introducing modular  projects for the Italian Navy, the logistics 
and substances that are not prohibited by  observatory has been set up to screen laws  cabins with attached integrated toilet/ ship for the Qatari Navy (LPD Qatar) is 
applicable laws and regulations and that are  and regulations relating to environmental  shower unit and partitions to cut noise  being developed, where the concepts of 
not classified as mutagenic or carcinogenic. aspects, chemical risk and health and safety  pollution; flexibility, modularity and low environmental 
In the last phase of the ship’s construction,  at work, with the aim of making the already  • use of water-based paints for interior areas. impact have been enhanced. The new vessel 
dedicated sessions are held to enable the  established contractual requirements  can also be used for humanitarian purposes 
crew to familiarize themselves with the on- complementary to the current regulatory  The renewal process for the Italian Navy fleet  in crisis areas both in times of peace and in 
board systems, particularly those relating  situation. has a distinctly dual approach, typical of the  times of war. 
to safety, before the ship enters service. In  For each ship, the residual risk assessment  Armed Forces. The Navy is often engaged in  Lastly, the International Convention for 
general, education and training is provided  document as provided for by Legislative  non-military tasks such as aiding populations  the Prevention of Pollution from Ships 
directly by the suppliers of the different  Decree 81/2008 is delivered to the ship’s  affected by natural disasters, monitoring  (MARPOL) aims to prevent and minimize 
systems. captain. and protecting archaeological heritage,  pollution from ships, whether accidental 
and transporting humanitarian materials  pollution or pollution resulting from 
and basic necessities, which is influencing  routine operations. We are committed to 
the current use of the fleet and the way in  various projects with the aim of containing 
which the renewal process is taking place.  environmental impact throughout the ship’s 
The new constructions are designed right  life cycle. 
These initiatives are described in detail in the chapters “For 
innovation – Our main projects” and “Fincantieri for the 
environment – Our ever greener ships”. 
110 111