FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
• the Quality bodies of the Italian subsidiaries  In 2019, Fincantieri Infrastructure  − quality system standards and 
(Isotta Fraschini Motori, Marine Interiors,  manufactured and assembled the new  procedures; 
Cetena, Seastema, Issel Nord, Fincantieri  bridge in Genoa (Polcevera viaduct),  − standard to be applied; 
SI).  entrusting part of the production to  • organizational aspects: 
PLAN the Castellammare di Stabia and Sestri  − organization and resources for the job; 
OBJECTIVE
A total of 17 audits were carried out and  shipyards: in order to do so, these shipyards  − interfaces and communications; 
COMPLETED
the formalized findings were almost all  have obtained ISO EN 1090 certification –  • control and inspection plans.
IN 2019 
class “C”, i.e. minor and/or similar to a  Execution of steel structures and aluminium 
recommendation, with the exception of one  structures. When designing and building complex 
class “B” finding made against one of the  In December 2019, the Naval Shipping  products and systems, such as cruise ships, 
subsidiaries, relating to the way performance  Division obtained the NATO AQAP 2110  military submarines or industrial diesel 
and quality indicators are monitored. (Quality Assurance Requirements for Design,  engines, there is always the possibility that 
As regards the US subsidiaries, Fincantieri  Development and Production) certificate  the process may be subject to deviations 
As envisaged in the Sustainability Plan,  Marine Systems North America Inc. and  issued by the Swiss Association for Quality  from standards, design changes, unexpected 
we maintained all our quality certifications  the Fincantieri Marine Group’s shipyards  and Management Systems (SQS) for the  events and supply or execution errors. These 
in 2019. To maintain the ISO 9001:2015  Marinette and Green Bay have achieved ISO  Genoa Department and the Muggiano and  “non-quality” events are normally detected 
certification, the Group’s divisions and  9001:2015 certification. The subsidiary VARD  Riva Trigoso sites. and tracked by internal structures, by the 
companies were subjected to official  carries out its operations in compliance with  customer's inspection staff and by the 
audits by the certification body. The 12  the Group’s Health, Safety, Environment and  classification bodies, or more rarely after 
audits conducted by the certification body  Quality (HSEQ) Manual and the Policy, the  Quality monitoring   delivery, with interventions in the guarantee 
RINA in 2019 on the Quality Systems of  principles and strategies of which are based  and after sales period. The remedial actions 
Fincantieri’s Italian organizations certified as  on the ISO standards. VARD’s efforts are  In Italy, the Quality Management System is  follow the industrial practice that involves 
compliant resulted in satisfactory outcomes.  aimed at ensuring that safety is achieved at  also applied to job orders, whether they be  increasing costs/times to adjust, repair, 
Moreover, in line with its responsibilities, the  all times and in all areas. Its production sites  naval or other products, through the job  redo and replace in order to minimize the 
company Quality body has carried out a  all have ISO 9001:2015 certification. Quality Plan (QP).  impact for the customer. The quantitative 
series of internal audits, aimed at verifying  The QP is a set of documents and Control  and qualitative analysis of these events, 
the correct application of the corporate  For more information on the certified shipyards and  Plans attached to the contract and governs  appropriately recorded and classified, 
companies, see the website www.fincantieri.com/en/
documentation on processes that have a  sustainability/certifications all aspects related to quality assurance,  gives rise to mechanisms for reviewing 
significant impact on quality, as required by  control and monitoring valid for the job in  the projects; in the case of shipbuilding, 
the ISO 9001 standard. In particular, four  In addition to the system certifications  question. It guides the operating structures  the analyses trigger the processes of 
macro organizational areas were examined: mentioned, the subsidiary Marine Interiors  in the correct design, construction and  continuous improvement, in order to ensure 
is in charge of the design, refitting and  testing of the product. that the same errors are not repeated in 
• the Quality bodies of the shipping  delivery of turnkey cabins and has achieved  The job Quality Plan is structured as follows:  subsequent jobs. A closing report/booklet 
departments/units;  the MED B product certification and MED  is produced, with the main lessons learned, 
• the Corporate functions related to primary  D process certification issued by RINA  • object of the project;  in order to share with all the operating 
processes;  certification body. MED certifications attest  • main characteristics of the job;  sites the countermeasures to the error 
• the Quality bodies of the production sites  compliance with EU Directive 2014/93/EU  • applicable documents: causes identified and make the consequent 
(Monfalcone, Sestri, Ancona, Integrated  - Fire Protection Requirements of Marine  − for the project;  prevention and improvement actions 
Shipyard); Equipment Directive (MED). − rules, laws and regulations;  possible.
114 115