FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
We regularly monitor quality indicators, at a  Regarding the management of military  We regularly survey the market and the  meetings with representatives of Lockheed 
divisional level (for homogeneous business  orders, during 2019 four audits were carried  competition, from which certain “loyalty”  Martin and the US Navy. These sessions 
areas) and at production level:  out by the Italian Government Quality  factors can be deduced.  cover the following areas: technical, testing, 
Assurance (AQG), which involved the FREMM  In Italy, five new ships were delivered in  planning, quality, after sales and Integrated 
• shipbuilding sectors (cruise ships, naval  Programme, the Multi-Purpose Patrol Vessel  2019, four cruise ships and one naval vessel.  Logistics Support (ILS). During these 
vessels, mega yachts), are classified by job  (PPA), Logistic Support Ship (LSS) and  Delivery of the 8th frigate in the FREMM  monitoring sessions, the company receives 
and by construction, which allows detailed  Landing Helicopter Dock (LHD) jobs, with 16  programme was accompanied by a letter of  feedback on the degree of customer 
comparisons to be made with regard to  non-conformities, of which 11 have already  congratulations from the customer OCCAR  satisfaction and on any problems. The 
homogeneous “objects” and “phases”;  been resolved and 5 are being resolved. (Organisation for Joint Armament Co- corrective actions are defined at that time, 
• in the plant and components sector (e.g.  operation).  with subsequent follow-up. 
diesel engines, turbines, naval systems and 
systems, cabins for passenger ships), the  Customer satisfaction As part of the Sustainability Plan, there is  In VARD, customers’ requirements and 
classification is by production process,  a specific objective regarding customer  expectations are defined during contract 
facilitated by repetitions in small and  The main sector in which we operate is  satisfaction which includes the development  negotiations and are maintained and 
medium-sized series.  intrinsically characterized by a limited number  of the Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI)  developed throughout all the project 
of competitors and customers. The measure  system. For its regulation, in 2019, the  stages. Customer satisfaction is monitored 
The VARD subsidiary also uses the Quality  of customer satisfaction and retention cannot  internal procedure was defined and tested  periodically and continuously, both during 
Plan for its projects. The quality indicators  therefore be based on significant data and  on two orders, one from the Cruise Ship  the production stage and during the 
and the achievement of the related annual  statistical samples. It requires instead a long- Division and one from the Naval Shipping  guarantee and after-sales period. Each 
objectives constitute a fundamental part  term analysis of the relationship between  Division. The resulting CSI of 85/100 is a very  product is subject to voluntary feedback 
of the incentive programmes of the entire  market trends, assignment of orders and  satisfactory starting value.  by customers. Customers also provide 
Fincantieri organization.  jobs to the various players, the time taken  the company with voluntary testimonials. 
to transform negotiations into orders, the  Fincantieri Marine Group surveys customer  Unsurprisingly, the company’s slogan is “Built 
maintenance of historic customers, and the  satisfaction three times a year through  on Trust”.
acquisition and retention of new customers. 
116 117