FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
During 2019, over 21,000 applications  internships were activated, both curricular  Superiore Sant’Anna in Pisa and the first  course (Higher Technical Education and 
were received through the company’s web  and post-curricular, of which 49% were then  level university master’s degree in nautical  Training) for ship designers in Monfalcone, 
portal “Work with us” (compared to around  transformed into employment contracts. The  and naval Interior Design with the University  the course for Process Technician for 
20,000 in 2018). In Italy, 787 people were  Group as a whole hired 2,767 people, 44.7%  of Trieste.  Shipbuilding in Genoa and the two 
hired, of whom 62% are under 35, and 272  of whom were 30 years of age or under. editions of the “Ship Master” courses in 
La Spezia and Sestri Levante. To support 
In 2019 Fincantieri was  the expansion of the training offered by 
HIRES BY AGE GROUP AND GENDER awarded the Universum  institutions in the Ligurian capital, we have 
prize as Most Attractive  joined the TecnOrientarsi Memorandum of 
     ≤ 30 YEARS      30-50 YEARS     ≥ 50 YEARS       TOTAL
Employers among  Understanding, signed in October between 
2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019
companies in the  Confindustria Genova and the network 
Total 1,034  1,238 1,248  1,237 330  292 2,612  2,767
Industrial Engineering  of professional colleges. We also offer 
of which women 188 234 217 185 46 34 451 453 and Manufacturing sector  work-study opportunities, as part of the 
The data refer to the entire Fincantieri Group. according to STEM (Science, Technology,  PCTO (Paths for Cross-functional Skills 
Engineering & Mathematics) student  and Orientation), to students at technical 
In an increasingly complex labour market,  Partnerships with universities  rankings of the leading Italian universities.  colleges located in the territories where we 
where there is a growing professional    In 2019, Fincantieri won the Universum  have our sites.
mismatch between supply and demand for  In order to have a direct and constant  award as Best Employer for STEM  • ITS Foundations: in accordance with the 
profiles with technical and technological  contact with students and teachers,  professionals, professionals with up to five  Memorandum of Understanding signed 
skills, we work constantly to make selection  we actively participate in “Career Days”  years’ experience, among companies in the  in May 2018 with the MIUR, we have 
processes better and more effective and  organized by universities and various local  Industrial Engineering sector. expanded our collaboration activities 
to enhance our recruiting and employer  institutions, we promote meeting days with  with the Higher Technical College (ITS) 
branding policies and strategies. Our  university students dedicated to introducing  Foundations, thanks to our managers’ 
employer branding strategies are translated  the Company (“Meet Fincantieri”), we carry  teaching posts, company visits and 
into an increasingly active presence on social  out moments of learning with seminars,  Technical institutes and ITS Foundations   internships for students. On this point, 
networks, including LinkedIn and Instagram,  classroom testimonials, orientation sessions,  during 2019 we designed a new course 
and above all through a synergistic network  as well as guided tours for students and  In 2019, we intensified our relationship  with the Merchant Marine Academy for 
of education and training actors, at national  school classes at construction sites and  with secondary educational institutions to  senior technicians for the supervision and 
and international level, which see the  technical departments. We have several  ensure the training of qualified resources  installation of on-board systems. Further 
involvement of secondary schools, Istituti  conventions in place to support the  with profiles that allow them to be easily  initiatives are being launched which will 
Tecnici Superiori Foundations (ITS - Higher  development of teaching, scientific research  employed in typical roles in the shipbuilding  affect territories with a lower rate of 
Technical Colleges), universities and business  and higher education at university and post- industry, both within the Group and in  development.
schools, with the aim of promoting the  graduate level. In particular, Fincantieri has  satellite companies. The main collaborations 
development of knowledge and skills sought  collaborated in and promoted the Cassa  activated with a view to supporting 
and applied in the Company.  Depositi Prestiti (CDP) MBA master’s degree  orientation and employment are given below.
at the Luiss Business School in Rome, 
reserved for employees of the CDP group.  • Technical institutes and vocational schools: 
We are also collaborating in the design  we have launched various initiatives in 
of the MIND - Management & Innovation  collaboration with technical colleges 
Design - master’s degree with the Scuola  and vocational schools, such as the IFTS 
122 123