FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
WE TRAIN AND ENHANCE OUR PEOPLE WITH AN 
EYE ON EXCELLENCE
and consolidating cross-functional 
For us, the training and development of  Training skills related to innovation and change 
people are the two fundamental strategic  87% EMPLOYEES  management, soft skills and knowledge of 
TRAINED
levers of the Talent Management process,  Also during 2019 the Group continued its  foreign languages.
17,295
since, by facilitating growth from within,  policy of investing in training programmes  • Corporate University: this is Fincantieri’s 
we make it possible for individuals to  aimed at improving the technical and  in-house management training school, 
increase their skills, enhance their potential  professional know-how of its resources,  which consists of technical-managerial 
and professionalism and encourage their  ensuring effective monitoring of roles and  The training we offer is mainly based on 3  training courses aimed at increasing 
motivation and involvement. encouraging the dissemination of cross- tools: employees’ skills at various stages of 
functional skills. Investments in training  individual development. Numerous editions 
programmes amounted to euro 4.8 million,  • FORmare catalogue: includes courses  of the Academy programme took place 
with an average of 29.7 hours of training per  aimed at covering technical-specialist  over the year. This programme is dedicated 
capita. needs and developing professional know- to young people who have recently 
how through training initiatives on the  been hired by the Company and aims to 
main specialized software and applications  encourage integration into the company 
used in the Company, on processes,  environment, providing them with training 
regulations and other activities involved  on cross-functional issues and facilitate an 
in the development of the ship product  aptitude to manage change.
OVER  and maintenance of quality standards. In 
580,000
29.7 addition to technical training, the catalogue 
HOURS
includes courses aimed at strengthening 
OF TRAINING
PROVIDED
28.7 36.6
AVERAGE HOURS
OF TRAINING PER CAPITA
MEN WOMEN
15.8
39.0
9.5
20.3
MIDDLE MANAGERS
BLUE COLLAR EMPLOYEES
SENIOR MANAGERS
WHITE COLLAR EMPLOYEES
The data refer to the entire Fincantieri Group.
The per capita hours are calculated as the ratio between hours provided to the whole workforce and the number of employees in service at the end of the year.
124 125