FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
for bringing together, communicating and  the most complete, objective and analytical  self-assessment and assessment by others. 
working synergistically among different  view of the various dimensions under  At the beginning of the year the Parent 
generations and, on the other, working on  evaluation.  Company completed the 360° assessment 
trust/esteem to break down barriers and  process that had begun in 2018.
PLAN create a shared team identity, starting from  • Performance appraisal: a key tool in  • Potential appraisal: aimed at a target 
OBJECTIVE the enhancement of individual peculiarities  human capital development processes  group of resources determined by age, 
COMPLETED
and pride linked to the sense of belonging  that aims to improve employees’  company seniority, role and qualification 
IN 2019 
to the Group. One of the most significant  performance through individual feedback  requirements. It takes the form of an 
team building initiatives is the “Development  that all employees, from workers to  assessment activity which, on the one 
Challenge”, dedicated to young resources  managers, receive at least once a year.  hand, offers the possibility of highlighting, 
who have already completed the Academy  This tool supports and directs meritocratic  through feedback interviews, the strengths, 
course and continuing their training in  appraisals, helps customize the personal  areas of improvement and growth 
In line with the Sustainability Plan, and as  order to reactivate group dynamics, and  development processes and define the  motivation and, on the other hand, makes 
part of the Corporate University’s training  the “Effective Relationships” course, which  training offered in line with the skills gaps  it possible to structure an individual 
programmes, we have introduced a module  is intended for production supervisors  highlighted. development plan in terms of short/
dedicated to sustainability issues. In 2019,  and technical figures in the shipyard, as an  medium-term training activities, coaching, 
131 employees were trained on these issues. opportunity to develop management and  mentoring, career paths and job rotation.
relational skills. 
PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES EVALUATED - 2019
• Safety Academy: includes training courses 
Senior managers 62%
on health, safety and the environment  People development
that the Company offers its employees  Evaluation processes of which women 69%
as activities aimed at providing useful  Middle managers 76% During 2019, people review activities, 
knowledge for identifying, reducing  The assessment processes are based on  of which women 72% which are an active management tool used 
and managing risks in the workplace.  the Company Skills Model which aims  White collar employees 78% by the HR Department and managers to 
During 2019, training activities relating  to enhance and encourage consistent  of which women 74% develop employees, played a key role in 
to environmental management were  behaviour at all levels of the organization  Blue collar employees 80% enhancing human capital and defining 
increased, with courses dedicated to  and to develop the appropriate skills to  of which women 88% professional growth paths and succession 
specific professional figures such as  deal with future challenges. This model  Total 79% plans. People review activities are launched 
energy managers and resources involved  includes skills related to “knowing”, such  of which women 78% from a synergistic work carried out every 
in managing environmental and safety  as knowledge of corporate strategy and  six months by the HR Department and by 
The data refer to the entire Fincantieri Group.
certification systems.  specialist and process know-how, “knowing  the business line and allow the population 
how to do”, such as the skills and abilities  to be mapped using the data related to the 
possessed and the experience gained,  • 360° assessment: a tool intended for all  performance appraisal, potential appraisal 
Team building and “knowing how to be”, namely those  managers with at least five staff members.  and the experience gained within the 
soft skills necessary to ensure appropriate  It aims to assess the typical skills of team  Company in a systematic and structured 
During the year, we have proposed various  interaction between the individual and  managers, such as feedback, delegation,  way. The strategic output that emerges 
team building activities with the aim,  the organizational context (leadership,  development of team members and  from this mapping is the identification of 
on the one hand, of understanding the  teamwork, feedback, staff management).  recognition of others, and aims to provide  high potential, namely those resources 
obstacles hindering team performance  The evaluation processes in place at  the evaluator with a complete overview of  with greater potential and usefulness in the 
and identifying the most valid mechanisms  Fincantieri are structured in order to ensure  the skills being evaluated by comparing  Company, on which to invest so that in the 
126 127