FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
OUR COMMITMENT TO HEALTH AND SAFETY
PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN BY CATEGORY OF THE CATEGORY TOTAL - 2019 Safety at work, workers’ health, the  and envisages the participation of all the 
maintenance and improvement of work  supervisors involved in processing and the 
TOTAL 13%
environments have always been our main  workers’ safety representatives. 
drivers and the foundation of our policies, in 
a vision that considers safety a strategic and  Furthermore, the meetings of the Quality 
7% 22%
development factor for the Company. and Safety Committees are held periodically 
13% 7%
The continued implementation of tools  in each production unit. These committees, 
SENIOR  WHITE COLLAR  associated with the certification of  composed of the site Management and the 
MANAGERS MIDDLE  EMPLOYEES BLUE COLLAR  the company's systems for managing  people reporting to management, including 
MANAGERS EMPLOYEES health and safety at work, according to  the quality, health, safety and environment 
The data refer to the entire Fincantieri Group. the requirements of OHSAS 18001/ISO  managers, have the aim of supervising and 
45001, has resulted in the broadening of  monitoring production processes during 
PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN TRAINED OF TOTAL WOMEN - 2019 We are constantly working to promote the  the work population involved, facilitating  their constant evolution and within their 
insertion of people with different physical  dissemination of corporate culture growth  different complexities. In these committees, 
and psychological abilities, in line with  paths. workers’ requests and any critical elements 
the characteristics of shipbuilding and the  This result is monitored through the  that may have emerged during joint 
risk profiles associated with the industry.  systematic implementation of internal  inspections of the operational areas or within 
2,310
459 people with disabilities work in the  audits connected to the certification of  the Commission for Safety and Environment 
Fincantieri Group. management systems and it has been  have a prompt and timely response. 
The US companies, Fincantieri Marine  further supported by the various actions 
89%
Group and Fincantieri Marine Systems  implemented as part of the Towards Zero  Similarly, in the United States, the Fincantieri 
WOMEN 
TRAINED North America Inc., as in the past few years,  Accidents project. Marine Group organizes monthly meetings 
have organized specific training activities  between health & safety and environment 
aimed at creating greater awareness of and  managers and union representatives to 
sensitivity to diversity issues. Towards Zero Accidents   analyse and share the results of accident 
The data refer to the entire Fincantieri Group.
analyses, performance indicators and the 
For several years the Towards Zero  main updates to the safety management 
Policy on Human Rights – Commitment for the respect of human rights and diversity www.fincantieri.com/globalassets/sostenibilita2/responsabilita-
risorse-umane/diverita-e-pari-opportunita/fincantieri_policy_on_human_rights2.pdf
Accidents project has involved all the  system.
resources concerned with the Company’s 
production process within a structured plan  The trend in injury data and rates for 
of initiatives and it has continued along its  employees and contractors is constantly 
path of activities aimed at employees and  monitored, both at company and site level, 
suppliers and at contractors’ employees.  and a special monthly report informs Top 
Management, all employers and all the 
To consolidate good practices and the  health and safety managers. Similarly, with 
constant monitoring of the production  the aim of involving and informing the entire 
dynamics, coordination meetings on safety  company audience with view to prevention, 
and the environment are organized which,  the documented analyses of accidents 
scheduled at least every two weeks, are  and near misses at individual shipyards 
carried out directly in the production areas  are systematically shared in a particularly 
130 131