FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
detailed format, which is sent electronically.  measures, etc.). This type of risk, together  The US subsidiaries have maintained a high  also certified Fincantieri Marinette Marine 
The same data, together with other health,  with all the specific risks present in the  commitment to safety and the environment  for achieving one million consecutive hours 
safety and environmental (HSE) issues,  workplace, is addressed in the safety courses  and have received numerous awards for  worked without injury or illness.
are compared and examined at quarterly  for employees regardless of their position.  excellence. In 2019, Fincantieri Marinette  Fincantieri Ace Marine has developed and 
meetings involving all site managers on  The risk assessment process, in particular  Marine won the Safety Excellence Award  launched the SLAM (Stop, Look, Assess, 
health and safety at work issues. In the  those related to health and safety at work, is  and the Safety Improvement Award, both  Manage) programme that involves the 
same context, the corporate HR manager  the subject of specific company guidelines  recognized by the Shipbuilders Council of  employees and aims to promote a pro-active 
coordinates work to share best practices,  and subsequent operating procedures. America. The National Safety Council has  vision of health and safety in the workplace.
raise issues of common interest and identify 
improvement proposals on which to involve  The VARD subsidiary, similarly to Towards 
and direct the Group’s activities.  Zero Accidents, continues to implement its 
MAIN HEALTH AND SAFETY INDICATORS
Vision Zero project, the results of which 
2018 2019
Particular importance is attached, within  confirm a positive trend. 
Rate of absenteeism 3.6 3.7
the mechanisms governing variable 
Rate of recordable work-related injuries   8.5 9.7
pay, to objectives related to health and  Further initiatives have been implemented 
Rate of high-consequence work-related injuries n.a.* 0.1
safety at work and environmental issues.  with the aim of preventing any type of 
Rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury   0 0
The company’s best performance and  accident to people and the environment: 
Number of injuries 366 383
sustainability improvement objectives are 
- of which work-related 301 339
benchmarks used to monitor and stimulate  • using the Safety Observation tool to report 
- of which high-consequence work-related n.a.* 3
the performance result and determine the  any anomalies found; 
- of which fatalities as a result of work-related 1 0
related economic impact. • reporting health and safety indicators at 
- of which while travelling 65 44
the monthly management meetings; 
Number of injuries - women 19 21
Evidence of work-related stress risk has  • organization of an internal accident 
Number of training hours in health and safety 152,791 186,958
been the subject of targeted pathways  prevention week; 
Number of employees trained in health and safety n.a.* 14,362
involving employees and workers’ safety  • monthly discussions on health and safety 
Investments in health and safety (euros) 7,077,620 5,877,467
representatives in identifying possible  (required by law in Brazil); 
*Data reported since 2019 as per 403 – Occupation health and safety GRI Standards 2018.
sources of risk. Surveys and tests carried  • electing an internal commission for the  The data refer to the entire Fincantieri Group.
out individually and for homogeneous  prevention of accidents; 
groups allow the Company to acquire results  • the internal distribution, based on the  Together in Safety people enter the Group’s production sites 
and elements which are used to define,  Group’s guidelines, of a booklet with the  for the first time. 
where necessary, appropriate initiatives  ten golden rules for health and safety at  The multimedia support Together in Safety  The video is available in the 10 languages 
with a view to reducing risk and promoting  work. is available in order to protect all the  most used in Fincantieri’s shipyards and 
personal well-being (training, organizational  resources involved in the production process  customized to the logistics of each site in 
and promote correct behaviour, including  Italy. It provides information on each of the 
from an environmental perspective, in all  production units and on the work risks that 
the Italian shipyards. This is a training video,  characterize shipbuilding.
with a duration of over three hours, aimed 
at employees of subcontractors (a user  In Italy, the Active Safety project continues, 
catchment of around 30,000 people), and  on a regular basis, to provide training and 
it must be watched in the classroom when  information to all workers (direct employees 
132 133