FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
and employees of contractors) present at  • analysis of the current near miss model  Security evolution of risks present in local scenarios 
individual shipyards. During working hours  mapping (i.e. events which potentially can  and for training and education activities 
and directly at the workplace, the individual  cause accidents) and its possible evolution; Owing to the more frequent and widespread  based on contingency plans. We also have a 
supervisors explain the subject matter to  • identification and implementation of new  presence of employees who travel or are  Virtual Crisis Management software platform, 
their staff, who are given a leaflet. In 2019,  training and information initiatives aimed  on secondment abroad, with the Travel  which allows committees to meet virtually to 
9 different editions were carried out with a  at promoting a culture of prevention,  Security programme we have developed  manage possible crisis situations even when 
duration of approximately 30 minutes each,  and innovative communication tools to  an ongoing mapping of risks in foreign  on the move or when the Company is closed 
which is in addition to the activities required  strengthen workers’ awareness of the  countries to guarantee the security of  (at night or on holidays). 
by law. risks in the production process and the  travelling employees and the sustainability 
appropriate safety measures. of the locations associated with business  With reference to the security problems 
operations. Therefore, around 16,000 foreign  connected to the globalization of the 
Memorandum of understanding with INAIL   travel routes are monitored.   business, mention should be made of the 
Supplier evaluation International Ship and Port Facility Security 
In April 2019, we signed with the National  (ISPS) Code, Chapter XI-2 of the SOLAS 
Institute for Insurance against Accidents  Safety, environmental and human rights  Regulation developed by the International 
at Work (INAIL) a memorandum of  issues are an integral part of the supplier  Marine Organization (IMO), a comprehensive 
understanding aimed at developing a  evaluation process. Contractors are already  set of rules to enhance ship and port facility 
PLAN
safety at work culture and at implementing  subject to evaluation from a financial, quality,  security in order to mitigate the risk of acts 
OBJECTIVE
activities and projects with the goal of  contractual and production perspective and  of terrorism and other unlawful acts. On the 
COMPLETED
consistently reducing accidents and  they are assessed using a predefined format  IN 2019  basis of the types of ships interacting with the 
occupational diseases. The MoU, which  and scorecards focused on health, safety  areas pertaining to Fincantieri, the relevant 
follows on from long-term cooperation,  and environment issues. The assessments  authority has determined its obligation for 
determines the scope and implementation  by the various shipyards have led to the  the Arsenale Triestino San Marco, Muggiano 
methodologies of activities aimed at  calculation of the overall performances of  and Palermo shipyards, while considering 
protecting workers’ health and safety. In  the companies and are subject to permanent  the Monfalcone and Marghera shipyards 
particular:  monitoring within Supplier Oversight. As required by the Sustainability Plan,  as occasional. The necessary professional 
through the activation of a Crisis  figures have already been identified at these 
• production process analysis, with respect  Management system (abroad), 12  shipyards, and the planned activities and 
to the risks related to the shipbuilding  contingency plans have been drawn up and  facilities have been implemented. Following 
industry and in particular those arising  updated for the most important foreign  on from our commitment to maintain an 
from interferences between the activities  sites and locations where the Company is  effective system of corporate governance and 
of internal and external resources; present. The plans are managed by special  risk management, we have decided to launch 
• monitoring of the health and safety  crisis committees (CMTs) which include, in  a project to implement the ISPS Code, in 
management ystem in place for contract  addition to employers, travellers and the  order to adopt a methodology in line with the 
work in the shipbuilding industry and its  relevant Health and Safety Department  above-mentioned international best practices, 
possible evolution; Managers, the heads of all functions involved  to protect our assets as well as its ship 
• evolution analysis of accidents in the  in the travel and personnel management  product, also for the Ancona, Castellammare 
represented sectors, supplemented with  process. Each CMT, in accordance with  di Stabia, Genoa Sestri Ponente, Riva Trigoso 
a comparison of the data collected at  corporate procedures, met at least twice  shipyards and for the Trieste, Rome and 
European level; a year, to update team members on the  Genoa offices.
134 135