FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
WELL-BEING FOR OUR PEOPLE
OHSAS 18001 / ISO 45001 and SA 8000  Fraschini Motori has achieved the first ISO  We have implemented a welfare model that  pension and health programme, which 
certifications   45001 certification in accordance with the  is able to positively affect the welfare of our  are complementary to the measures 
relevant requirements. people and, at the same time, capture the  already defined in terms of supplementary 
During 2019, we continued implementing  most modern dynamics of the labour market  pensions and healthcare, the National 
and consolidating the occupational  The US site of Fincantieri Marinette Marine,  and the business. Collective Bargaining Agreement (CCNL) 
health and safety management systems  already previously certified in compliance  and the company’s supplementary labour 
in our operating units (65% of sites are  with OHSAS 18001, has planned to migrate  The welfare tools, defined with the corporate  agreement, were also highly appreciated. 
certified), with the aim of supporting the  its health and safety at work management  agreement in 2016, are aimed at employees  The portal also provides other categories 
implementation of the policy adopted by the  system to the ISO 45001 standard during  in general of Fincantieri S.p.A., including  of services such as training courses, travel 
Company. 2020.  part-time and fixed term employees, and are  and holidays, mortgage repayments, leisure, 
also recognized for the employees of Italian  sport and wellness. 
In 2019, eight Italian sites completed the  The VARD group maintained OHSAS 18001  subsidiaries and/or associates falling under  As regards welfare policies, particular 
migration process to the new ISO 45001  certification for the Romanian Braila and  the application of the supplementary labour  attention has been paid to public transport 
standard and we plan to complete the  Tulcea shipyards, as well as the Vietnamese  agreement. and mobility issues, with an eye on 
transition of the remainder by 2020. In  Vung Tau shipyard. Within the welfare system, the Social Bonus  sustainability. The employee can request the 
parallel, the surveillance activity by the  is particularly important because of its  total or partial reimbursement of the ticket, 
accredited certification body to maintain the  All VARD shipyards are aligned with SA  characteristics. The bonus is paid annually  such as the season ticket for the bus or train, 
existing management systems continues.  8000 standards, which are based on the  and exclusively in welfare services and any  for themselves and/or for their dependent 
The Palermo shipyard has achieved the first  International Labour Organization (ILO)  unused bonus amounts are automatically  family members.
OHSAS 18001 certification in accordance  conventions and the Universal Declaration of  allocated to the individual employee’s 
with the requirements of the reference  Human Rights (Vung Tau is also certified). supplementary pension fund. To strengthen  Confirming the validity of the welfare model 
standard while the subsidiary Isotta  the connection between the achievement  it has adopted, Fincantieri - having previously 
For more information on the certified shipyards and  of production objectives and consolidation  won the Welfare Awards 2018 for the best 
companies, see the website
www.fincantieri.com/en/sustainability/certifications  of the overall welfare system, employees  plan in application of the National Collective 
who decide to convert variable bonuses  Bargaining Agreement for Steelworkers 
into welfare are paid a further increase of  and for welfare policies aimed at blue collar 
10% on the value converted. In 2019, 25%  employees - won the Welfare Award for the 
of the overall performance Bonus was  Best Welfare Network Plan 2019 due to the 
converted into welfare services. For an  territorial extension of the welfare system.
employee to benefit from company welfare, 
we have a special portal through which  Again with a view to generating positive 
the employee can access a wide range of  repercussions in terms of environmental 
goods and services. The most requested  sustainability, during 2019 the promotion 
services were those intended for the family,  campaign for the use of corporate car 
in particular for the training of children and  pooling (namely two or more people sharing 
assistance to family members, together with  a private car for the commute to and from 
welfare vouchers, which can be spent in  work) was implemented and provided for 
establishments with which the employees  incentives and the recognition of bonuses.
themselves have often asked the Company  In order to respond to the growing need 
to arrange special prices. The supplementary  for work-life balance, we continued to 
136 137