FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
test smart working for particular personal  coverage plan for eye health. The costs are  and employment trends. processes, combining the necessary 
situations. borne partly by the Company and partly by  increases in efficiency and productivity with 
The Company’s focus on work-life balance,  the worker. Additional benefits are available  The Committee also meets when there are  the improvement of working conditions and 
which is already included in the National  that are not included in the above plans,  changes in the company and ownership  the environment.
Collective Bargaining Agreement for  such as the on-site clinic, vacation and  structure, significant organizational 
steelworkers where a worker dealing with  holiday pay, the policy on short/long term  changes, significant changes in labour  With regard to the subjective right to 
serious family situations can take a period  disability, life insurance for accidental death  policy, restructuring and/or reorganization  continuous training, Fincantieri operates 
of leave of absence of up to two years, has  & dismemberment, the retirement plan and  projects and restructuring and development  in line with the provisions of the National 
also been implemented indirectly with the  the employee assistance programme.  programmes. Collective Bargaining Agreement signed 
involvement of company clubs, through  in 2016, guaranteeing the possibility of 
initiatives that meet the employees’ needs:  The VARD group provides its employees,  In fact, any restructuring and/or  participating, either directly or at the initiative 
special arrangements with day care centres,  using different methods depending on the  reorganization processes provide for specific  of the Company, in training courses lasting 
seaside or mountain resorts during the  location, with medical assistance, internal  information procedures with the involvement  at least 24 hours per person during the three 
summer, daytime summer camps and after- catering services, food cards, training  of trade unions, in order to identify the most  years of the National Collective Bargaining 
school activities. incentives and support for transport to and  appropriate tools (e.g. early retirement,  Agreement.
from home.  reduction of working hours, social shock 
With regard to supplementary health care,  absorbers, retraining, etc.) and their different  This approach has provided yet more 
since January 2018 the Company has been a  structuring according to the different  impetus to the training process, which is 
member of the Health Fund for steelworkers,  Industrial relations contexts. already effectively monitored, helping to 
called “MètaSalute”, with a supplementary  further awareness of the need for companies 
health care plan for employees and  Industrial relations in Fincantieri are  The supplementary agreement also  and workers to invest in the continuous 
dependent family members, also covered  characterized by a participatory model  governs the operation of the Joint National  updating of skills and knowledge, identified 
free of charge. Health services are provided  that is developed through the activities of  Committee on Safety at Work and the Joint  as strategic factors when responding to 
both directly, through the facilities  various commissions defined by the 2016  National Training Committee. Composed of  technological, organizational and market 
contracted by the operator and in the form  supplementary labour agreement, which  3 company representatives and 3 workers’  changes.
of reimbursement. in some cases, in addition to trade unions,  representatives, these joint committees are 
include workers. responsible for analysing the characteristics  In relation to the growing process of 
The Fincantieri agreement on health  and trends of the issues within internal  internationalization and with a view to 
care also confirmed the opportunity for  A strategically important body is the  evolution, verifying the consistency of  encouraging the full involvement of Group 
pensioners, under the most favourable  Advisory Committee, composed of  the initiatives implemented, proposing  workers, Fincantieri, together with the 
conditions, to continue to make use of the  12 members, 6 of which are company  and evaluating new general or specialized  trade unions, is committed to setting up a 
supplementary health care benefits with a  representatives and 6 trade unions,  initiatives, and evaluating and approving  special working group for the establishment 
contribution paid for by them. which meets annually for information and  intervention plans. of the European Works Council (EWC), 
consultation between the Parties on issues  the purpose of which will be to inform and 
Fincantieri Marine Group provides benefits  such as market scenarios and competitive  Each company site has a Bilateral Joint  consult the workers of EU-wide companies.
to all employees working for at least 30  positioning, economic performance,  Technical Body and a Committee on Safety 
hours a week. Benefits include subscription  alliances and strategic partnerships, business  and Environment. Their purpose is, by  The current supplementary labour agreement 
to the Group Health Medical Plan, which  strategies, technological innovations, safety  systematically involving all resources, to  will also be fully effective in 2020, since 
covers various services: a medical coverage  at work, training and retraining, relations with  increase the motivation and participation  the trade union agreement providing for its 
plan, a dental coverage plan and vision  educational institutions and/or universities,  of employees in the change and innovation  extension was signed in December 2019.
138 139