FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
Employees are guaranteed freedom of  Remuneration be provided not only in monetary form, but  As set out in the Sustainability Plan, to 
association throughout the Group. In 2019,  also in the form of welfare or non-monetary  promote a culture of sustainability in line 
52% of employees are registered with trade  benefits. with the Group’s Values, sustainability 
unions.   1  objectives with a weight of no less than 
€  bln
10% up to a maximum of 30% have 
PERSONNEL COSTS
The VARD group has established a model of  been included in the short-term variable 
industrial relations that is strongly oriented  remuneration system (MBO). In 2019, 13.3% 
towards dialogue with trade unions in  The remuneration of employees (blue collar  of MBO Plan recipients received at least one 
PLAN
order to identify and provide impetus for  and white collar) is defined in relation to  OBJECTIVE sustainability target.
the changes needed to ensure a stable  the relevant labour market and with the  COMPLETED
and profitable future for the Company.  provisions of the collective bargaining  IN 2019  As regards remuneration between genders, 
During 2019, especially in the Norwegian  agreements and company level contracts and  the ratio of women’s (basic and global) 
shipyards, agreements and protocols were  consists of a fixed component and a variable  remuneration compared to men is given 
signed to define phases, rules and timing  component. below.
for the gradual cessation of VARD activities 
at the Aukra and Brevik shipyards and to  The fixed component remunerates the role 
manage the personnel concerned through  and, specifically, the responsibilities assigned  RATIO BETWEEN WOMEN’S BASIC SALARY AND MEN’S  RATIO BETWEEN WOMEN’S GLOBAL REMUNERATION 
redeployments or support in the search for  to each employee, taking account of,  AVERAGE SALARY - 2019 AND MEN’S AVERAGE REMUNERATION - 2019
new opportunities. Trade union agreements  among other things, the level of experience,  WHITE  BLUE WHITE  BLUE
SENIOR  MIDDLE  COLLAR  COLLAR  SENIOR  MIDDLE  COLLAR  COLLAR 
have been signed at the VARD shipyards  the quality of the contribution that each 
MANAGERSMANAGERSEMPLOYEESEMPLOYEES MANAGERSMANAGERSEMPLOYEESEMPLOYEES
in Braila and Tulcea in Romania to improve  employee brings to the attainment of the 
Fincantieri 1.0 0.9 0.9 0.9 Fincantieri 1.0 1.0 0.9 0.9
productivity (reorganization of work  business results, as well as the level of 
VARD group 0.5 1.0 0.7 0.8 VARD group 0.5 1.0 0.7 0.8
programmes, shift changes, breaks), with the  excellence with respect to the duties assigned 
simultaneous introduction, in terms of pay,  and is sufficient to remunerate the services  Fincantieri  1.4 0.9 0.8 0.9 Fincantieri  1.3 1.0 0.8 0.8
Marine Group Marine Group
of a bonus system focused on results. performed in the event of no payment or only 
Fincantieri Marine  Fincantieri Marine 
partial payment of the variable components,  Systems North  0.0 0.8 0.9 0.8 Systems North  0.0 0.7 0.8 0.6
America Inc. America Inc.
where envisaged.
It is also such as to ensure a suitably 
competitive position with respect to the level 
of salary paid by the market for the specific 
position.
The variable component is linked to 
predetermined and measurable Group 
and individual performance objectives and 
remunerates, according to the different 
structures, the results achieved in the short 
and long term. The latter, moreover, focuses 
people’s attention and commitment on the 
achievement of strategic objectives and can 
140 141