FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
WE LISTEN TO OUR PEOPLE
We believe that dialogue and listening are  set up to review the new change initiatives  The project was given a 
2019
essential for creating relationships based on  and collect people’s suggestions, with a view  green perspective with the 
trust and transparency, which is why we have  to continuous improvement through a new  launch of Fincantieri for 
developed the following listening initiatives  survey that recorded a higher response rate  the Green Future, a new initiative that aims 
over the years. than the previous year (+7%).  to raise awareness and bring employees 
closer to environmental issues, making 
them protagonists of a path of continuous 
As part of our development  The evidence that emerged,  improvement. Fincantieri for the Green 
2016 2018
and improvement initiatives,  including the growing  Future is a call to action, an invitation and 
we have launched the  awareness of the need  an incentive to make a tangible contribution 
Fincantieri for the Future project in Italy with  for change and how it is a living and vital  to environmental protection with virtuous 
the aim of developing and implementing  process within the Company, as well as  behaviour, small daily actions, simple 
an organic path of management change  a strong and increased pride in working  gestures and attention to waste, starting 
at all levels, which is needed in order  at Fincantieri, was shared during 2018 in  with greater awareness and sensitivity to 
to best respond to current and future  meetings with employees, who were able  environmental sustainability in the Company. 
competitive challenges. The first step of the  to actively participate in the project also  With the aim of promoting environmental 
project saw the active engagement of and  through a direct dialogue with management.  sustainability not only as an opportunity, 
listening to workers through an anonymous  An external eyewitness attended the  but as a real mission, the second edition 
questionnaire aimed at identifying the  meetings and brought practical examples  of FincantieriON will be launched in 2020. 
organizational climate, people’s expectations  of the connection between values and  The initiative, aimed at all employees, aims 
and their suggestions.  behaviour in the world of work. After this  to promote the collection of innovative 
meeting, various working groups were  ideas that may suggest the introduction 
established aimed at defining the Group  of materials, system and organizational 
The results obtained from this  Conduct Agreement, which translates the  solutions and, more generally, a process of 
2017
first survey were the starting  corporate values, defined during the first  change that can bring about continuous 
point for designing, planning  stage of the project, into actual behaviours  improvement within the Company with a 
and implementing improvement actions  that can be observed and translated into  view to sustainability so that the resource 
in response to the objective evidence that  everyday life. exploitation, technological development and 
emerged, the so-called “change shipyards”.  Again with the aim of “putting people at the  investment management are increasingly 
With the aim of promoting the exchange  core”, disseminating the culture, corporate  compatible with protecting the environment 
of opinions, confrontation and dialogue,  values and all the initiatives launched as part  and the creation of long-term value.
considered fundamental tools for the growth  of the change management project, we set 
of people and the organization as a whole,  up a network of internal facilitators, Group 
we shared the results that emerged and the  employees who, owing to their personality, 
contents of the “change shipyards” launched  aptitude and natural inclination, can facilitate 
during dedicated meetings held in all  the change process, stimulate everyday 
production units, divisions, departments and  participation at all levels, leveraging on 
Italian subsidiaries, which involved more than  formal and informal occasions, with the aim 
6,500 resources. Using the same procedure  of making everyone aware that they each can 
as the first step, a monitoring process was  and must be an active part in the change.
142 143