FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
OUR LINES OF ACTION Fostering employment and integration, including through the promotion of 
educational and training programmes 
Our goal is to:
Fostering employment and integration, • facilitate the matching of labour supply and demand;
also by promoting educational and training programs
• activate a virtuous circle and an ever closer bond with local communities;
• create opportunities for growth and enhance the skills of people and businesses.
We are committed to creating a pool of suitably trained personnel to stimulate the Fincantieri 
Strengthening Group identity and the 
Raising awareness about climate  system, particularly with reference to the supply chain, in order to cope with workloads. 
sense of belonging among employees 
changes and environmental impacts
and with the community
With this in mind we are developing, together with regional and municipal administrations, 
several initiatives, such as specific pre-employment courses and recruitment days, in which 
the satellite businesses took part in the search for specialized personnel. These initiatives 
OUR LINES OF ACTION involved, as a priority, unemployed people or non-workers as a result of businesses that 
suffered economic crisis in the territory. 
Promoting activities aimed at 
Ensuring health protection
preserving and enhancing artistic, 
and promoting research
historic and cultural heritage
We work continuously to promote the Professional Training System related to the maritime 
economy by participating in Higher Technical Colleges (ITS) and Higher Technical Education (IFTS).
Supporting scientific research STRADAMICA PESCHIERE  MUNICIPALITY OF 
Supporting the underprivileged
and technological innovation Project organized by the  UNIVERSITY STUDENT  MONFALCONE
Prefecture of Gorizia and  ACCOMMODATION  Coverage of school fees 
aimed at high school  FOUNDATION (Genoa) for some children at the 
students in the province in  A charitable trust that  Monfalcone nursery school.
order to make young people  pursues educational and  Contribution to the 
aware of road safety. research aims. It provides  renovation project of a 
training, research, study  building in Monfalcone to be 
orientation and volunteer  used as a nursery school. 
activities and awards 
More details on the initiative are 
scholarships to particularly  described on p. 66.
deserving students with 
limited economic resources.
EDUCATIONAL AND TRAINING PROGRAMMES
• Career Day for the unemployed/non-workers.
• Orientation activities with colleges.
• Pre-employment courses to train the unemployed/non-workers on critical professional skills 
and two-year post-diploma specialization (ITS).
• Targeted actions for staff made redundant due to companies in economic crisis.
146 147