FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
Strengthening the Group’s identity and sense of belonging with employees and  Promoting cultural activities to protect and enhance artistic, historic and 
with communities cultural heritage
In our shipyards (in Italy, Norway, Romania and the United States), we organize many events  Culture can drive growth in the territory. We want to contribute to the attractiveness of local 
that are an important opportunity for us to open our doors to the employees and communities  territories and increase their development opportunities by recovering and enhancing artistic 
in the territory and promote awareness of the Company and its values.  and historical peculiarities and supporting cultural initiatives.
FAMILY DAY / WORKERS VISIT BIMBI A BORDO (CHILDREN ON BOARD) GIUSEPPE VERDI OPERA  CAMPIELLO FOUNDATION   MUCA - MONFALCONE 
Through these initiatives in  Events dedicated to all the children of employees from  HOUSE FOUNDATION Sponsor of the 57th edition  SHIPBUILDING MUSEUM
Italy alone around 19,000  Fincantieri and the external companies aged between 4 and  Supporting the activities of  of the Campiello Literary  Collaboration with MuCa 
people, both employees and  10, allowing them to board and see the ship built by their  the Giuseppe Verdi Opera  Prize.  - Monfalcone Shipbuilding 
workers in satellite businesses,  family members. House Foundation in Trieste  Museum - through the 
were able to spend a few  In Italy alone, around 3,600 children aged between 4 and 10,  entrusted the tasks of  Fincantieri Foundation.  
hours in the shipyards with  accompanied by 1,800 adults, participated in this initiative. conservation, enhancement 
their families and, where  and promotion of opera and 
possible, visit with the ships.  symphonic music.
OPEN SHIPYARDS COMPANY CLUBS LINK - PREMIO LUCHETTA  CULTURAL EVENTS
Several shipyards open their  In 2019, more than 16,000 registered members benefited  INCONTRA MARCO LUCHETTA  • Partnership in “GEOgraphies, write the Earth, read the 
doors to school children  from the activities of the 9 company clubs at national level,  INTERNATIONAL JOURNALISM  Earth”, the literary festival held in the Municipality of 
and university students and  of which approximately 8,000 were current and former  PRIZE Monfalcone. 
groups to show and explain  Fincantieri employees. Festival of good journalism  • Sponsorship in Pordenone Legge.
the naval production process. The premises of the company clubs, the staff in charge of  consisting of interviews, 
the administrative management and the economic resources  presentations dedicated to  BARCOLANA
UNIONE FINCANTIERI  necessary for their maintenance are predominantly provided  new publications and talks  Participation and local identity are pivotal elements of the 
MONFALCONE by Fincantieri.  with leading figures in the  Barcolana, an international sailing regatta held in Trieste, 
Supporting the youth football  news. which, in 2019, held 400 events over 10 days.
team Unione Fincantieri  Over 15,000 admissions at 
Calcio Monfalcone, which  thirty events over three days. 
bears the Company’s name.
148 149