FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
Supporting the vulnerable
Fincantieri Foundation
Fincantieri Foundation (www.fondazionefincantieri.it)
supports the corporate culture in a continuous, organic and 
authoritative way, and is a link with the social fabric and it  Support to people in difficulty and the promotion of volunteer initiatives for disadvantaged 
establishes a socially responsible, equitable and virtuous  communities is an issue that we feel strongly about and we translate this feeling into 
relationship with local territories.  practical help through numerous initiatives.
During 2019, the Foundation carried out numerous activities: 
RICREARTI ASSOCIATION NOIHANDIAMO ASSOCIATION  ANDREA DORIA INSTITUTE
Contribution to the organization of the exhibition “From  The restoration and display  A recovery and job  Partnership in the LaMaxGua  Support for welfare activities 
Julius Caesar to Leonardo da Vinci” held by the Municipality  of the historical model of the  placement project  project, which aims to make  aimed at the families of 
of Monfalcone in the MuCa and in the Contemporary Art  Vulcania motorboat. for unemployed or  a boat safely accessible to  soldiers currently in service 
Gallery.  disadvantaged people that  people with severe mobility  or who have served in the 
makes gadgets by reusing  limitations. Italian Navy and who are in a 
Digitization of the Marghera  Assistance to students, associations and public entities with  Fincantieri’s promotional  particularly difficult economic 
shipyard’s photographic  regard to historical research on the shipbuilding world and  materials otherwise destined  situation. 
archive (around 2,300 digitally  on Fincantieri’s activities in the archives of Monfalcone and  for disposal.
reproduced photos) and  Muggiano. In 2019, 1,600 art shopping  FOOD BANK 
implementation activities in  bags and 2,000 key rings  Agreements with the Food Bank and the companies that
the Palermo archive. were created for Fincantieri. provide catering services to collect unconsumed food 
in canteens and redistribute it to those bodies providing 
GOFFREDO DE BANFIELD  assistance and help to people in need.
ASSOCIATION
More details on the initiative are described on p. 67. 
Support for the elderly who 
are not self-sufficient with 
Supporting scientific research and technological innovation
staff made up mostly of 
volunteers.
We support scientific research and technological innovation for a sustainable future. With 
this objective we promote and support multiple activities aimed at spreading a culture of 
technological innovation and research and the realization of scientific projects with the 
contribution of scholars and experts.
PARTICIPATION IN EVENTS / CONFERENCES COOPERATION PROTOCOLS
• Trieste Next - Festival of Scientific Research. Projects for teaching and 
• Science Festival in Genoa.  research activities, internships 
• SUPEHR 2019 (SUstainable PolyEnergy generation and  and doctorates with: 
HaRvesting) future technologies for sustainable energy  • Universities; 
generation. • Business Schools;
• Colleges. 
150 151