FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
WE DIALOGUE WITH COMMUNITIES AND 
Protecting health and promoting research
INSTITUTIONS
Our contribution primarily consists of initiatives to support the medical-scientific sector or  Our structure and international presence  before Parliament, the Government and 
to support the sick. We are convinced that it is only through scientific research that we can  throughout the world brings with it dialogue  national institutions whose actions could 
improve people’s quality of life and prospects, because health protection is an ethical and  with very different realities and requires that  have a direct or indirect impact on society, 
social value of primary importance. we have in-depth knowledge of the territory  through symmetrical relations with its 
and the needs of stakeholders with the aim  counterparties.
of effectively responding to demands and 
ITALIAN RED CROSS PESCHIERE UNIVERSITY  FRIENDS OF THE HEART  define priorities. Our approach is aimed at transparency by 
Support to the Hospitality  STUDENT ACCOMMODATION  ASSOCIATION The relationship and dialogue with local  representing the interests of the Group, as a 
Centre of the Italian Red  FOUNDATION Creation of a multimedia  communities is managed internally at Parent  whole, and in full institutional respect for the 
Cross in Genoa, which  Award of scholarships  laboratory at the Maggiore  Company level through the Central and  roles of our counterparties. 
hosts families and children  to particularly deserving  Hospital in Trieste used  Local Administration Relations function. We have built a process based on mutual 
under treatment in the  students with limited  by researchers from the  This function represents: trust, presenting the Company’s perspective 
oncology and haematology  economic resources. Cardiovascular Centre,  before public decision-makers, supporting 
departments of the Gaslini  the Friuli Venezia Giulia  • our direct line with Institutions and Public  our arguments, also through the preparation 
Institute. Regional Cardiovascular  Administrations and we use it to channel all  of position papers always supported by a 
Observatory and the  the requests from and to local areas; legal/regulatory and scientific foundation.
Interuniversity Consortium  • the Fincantieri Group and all our associates 
Healthcare Research & 
Pharmacoepidemiology. 
Raising awareness on climate change issues and environmental impacts
Respect for the environment, for local territories and for each individual with whom we share 
areas and activities, is an essential prerequisite to ensure the continuity and growth of our 
Group over time, to the benefit of future generations.
FINCANTIERI FOR THE GREEN FUTURE OUR FUTURE TAKES ROOT
Communication campaign aimed at creating greater  Participation in the 
awareness and sensitivity on environmental issues and  fundraising for the 
encouraging all employees to make a tangible contribution to  reforestation of the mountain 
safeguarding the environment. areas in Friuli Venezia Giulia 
after the Vaia storm. 
More details on the initiative are described on p. 160. 
152 153