FINCANTIERI GROUP
We are a unique group in the world. 
OUR IDENTITY
We are the only operators capable 
of building all types of highly 
complex vessels
Fincantieri Group (also referred to here as  The Group, which has its headquarters in 
Fincantieri, Group or Company) is one of  Trieste, has built more than 7,000 vessels 
the world’s largest shipbuilding groups and  in its over 230 years of history. With 19,823 
number one in terms of diversification and  employees, including more than 9,300 in Italy, 
innovation.  and 20 shipyards spanning 4 continents, our 
We are a global multinational company and  customers include the major cruise operators, 
the only operators capable of building all  the Italian and US Navy, as well as several 
types of highly complex vessels from cruise  foreign Navies. We are a partner of some of 
ships to mega-yachts, from naval vessels to  the main European defence companies within 
high-tech offshore vessels. supranational programs. 
We are the leader in cruise ship design and  Fincantieri is focused on customer satisfaction 
construction and a reference player in all  and for this reason, over the years, it has 
high-tech shipbuilding industry sectors. evolved its organizational structure to adapt 
We work to create an increasingly  it to the Group’s strategies and to respond 
technological and sustainable future, focusing  to the challenges posed by the market in a 
on innovation and respect for people and the  timely manner. Today the Group consists of 
environment. a number of companies with headquarters 
in Italy and around the world, and adopts 
an integrated production model based on 
excellence. Fincantieri has 82 subsidiaries, 
26 of which are Italian and 56 of which are 
foreign. As part of its growth and business 
strengthening strategy, 14 new companies 
were acquired or established in 2019. In 
particular, in order to strengthen activities in 
high-tech sectors, during the year a majority 
stake was acquired in Insis S.p.A., a company 
active in the information technology and cyber 
security sectors, which operates on domestic 
and foreign markets both directly and as 
a technological partner of large industrial 
groups.
Fincantieri's business is widely diversified by 
end markets, geographical exposure and by 
client base, with revenue mainly generated 
from cruise ship, naval and offshore vessel 
construction. Compared with less diversified 
players, such diversification allows it to 
mitigate the effects of any fluctuations in 
demand on the end markets served.
12 13