FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
We are committed to implementing and  During 2019, in accordance with the  Environmental aspects To make the quality of data acquired 
maintaining our management systems  objective of the Sustainability Plan, we  more reliable and identify the consequent 
in particular; all the production sites of  committed ourselves to spreading and  We are bound by laws and regulations  improvement actions, the installation of 
Fincantieri S.p.A., the US Marinette site, as  promoting the culture of environmental  to protect the environment and people’s  more advanced measurement systems has 
well as the Braila and Tulcea shipyards in  sustainability by launching a communication  health which impose limits on atmospheric  continued, giving priority to those for the 
Romania and Vung Tau in Vietnam of the  campaign (for a “sustainable” office), within  emissions, discharges into water and soil  most significant energy consumption and 
VARD group are certified ISO 14001:2015. the Fincantieri for the Green Future project,  and set rules for the treatment of hazardous  which are more easily dealt with from a 
that is focused on promoting virtuous and  waste and the reclamation of any polluted  performance perspective. The process of 
Environmental audits are carried out  eco-sustainable behaviour.  sites. improving the energy efficiency of lighting 
regularly in all the sites by the specific  The objectives of the campaign are to: No significant environmental accidents  systems, carried out with the gradual 
internal structures and all the reports of any  occurred in the Group’s production sites in  installation of solutions based on LED 
environmental accidents are collected and  • consolidate the culture of sustainability  2019.  technology, continued. During 2019, this 
managed systematically. and the virtuous path that the Group has  intervention involved the Castellammare 
The individual certified sites adopt specific  undertaken in terms of environmental  di Stabia, Monfalcone, Palermo and Sestri 
site policies consistent with the guidelines  protection, giving practical form to the  Energy Ponente shipyards in Italy, the Braila shipyard 
defined at company level. The latter are  objectives published in the Sustainability  in Romania, the Marinette shipyard in the 
binding for all Fincantieri employees and are  Plan; The Parent Company produces an energy  United States and the subsidiary Isotta 
shared with all suppliers through frequent  • disseminate projects and strategies aimed  diagnosis each year (in 2019 with reference  Fraschini Motori’s production site in Bari.
coordination activities.  at reducing environmental impact to all  to consumption in 2018), in compliance with 
stakeholders by first involving employees,  the regulatory requirements of Legislative  The good results from the Ancona shipyard 
For more information on the certified shipyards and  but also suppliers, in the sustainability path; Decree 102/2014, aimed at identifying  regarding the experimental introduction of 
companies, see the website
www.fincantieri.com/en/sustainability/certifications • create greater awareness and sensitivity in  inefficiencies and implementing an annual  a remote control and automatic shutdown 
order to encourage all employees to make  programme to modernize the plants,  system for the mobile welding fume 
As part of the management systems,  a tangible contribution to safeguarding the  including through the implementation of  extractors has validated the initiative, which 
the individual production units plan  environment with virtuous behaviours in  new technologies capable of guaranteeing  is expected to be implemented in 2020 
specific training/information activities on  day-to-day life, both at work and at home. ever better performance in terms of energy  at the Marghera, Monfalcone and Sestri 
environmental issues on an annual basis,  efficiency. Ponente shipyards.
based on identified needs, to increase the  The campaign was launched by distributing 
level of knowledge and raise awareness of  a brochure to all employees that illustrates 
ENERGY CONSUMPTION
their employees on individual issues. the virtuous behaviour to be adopted in 
everyday life, both in the workplace and at  2018 2019
home, and with the symbolic distribution  ELECTRICITY ELECTRICITY
of a gadget (an aluminium water bottle to  48% 50%
PLAN
OBJECTIVE encourage people to reduce their plastic  TOTAL  TOTAL 
COMPLETED consumption). 2,620,706  2,580,329 
-1.5%
IN 2019 
GJ GJ
The subsidiary Insis has also promoted an 
internal campaign on lighting management  FUEL FUEL
52% 50%
and a policy on reusing materials.
The data refer to the entire Fincantieri Group.
160 161