FINCANTIERI GROUP
WE INVEST FOR THE ENVIRONMENT WE PROTECT BIODIVERSITY
Enterprises’ NOx-Fund, whose primary  We promote the efficient use of natural 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
objective is to reduce emissions of NOx.  INVESTMENTS resources and the protection of biodiversity, 
10.5 
€  mln
identifying potential impacts and mitigation 
Fincantieri’s production sites are individually  actions, since safeguarding the natural value 
subject to environmental permits that  of the areas surrounding the shipyards, 
prescribe specific limits on the maximum  To conserve resources in 2019, we have  where the Company’s production is located, 
consumption and total emissions of volatile  invested 10.5 million euros in environmental  is of primary importance for Fincantieri. 
organic compounds (VOCs) into the  protection, around 33% more than in 2018. To protect these places, specific and special 
atmosphere. Compliance with these limits  precautions are put in place in accordance 
is pursued, even when production volumes  Fincantieri S.p.A. has for years been  with local legislation and activities that could 
are increasing, by planning a gradual  committed to implementing measures aimed  directly or indirectly concern the protected 
replacement of the products used with  at continuously improving the impact on  area are carefully monitored. 
alternatives with a lower solvent content  all environmental compartments. The main  The production sites in Muggiano (surface 
and by adopting appropriate system  ones involved the systems for collecting  area of 147,000 m2), Riva Trigoso (surface 
measures to reduce emissions. These include  and treating rainwater, noise containment  area 173,000 m2) and Sestri Ponente 
the installation of new sandblasting and  measures related to production and systems  (surface area 237,500 m2) are inside an 
painting facilities and, most recently, the  for extracting and treating welding fumes and  International Marine Protected Area - Marine 
one that has been operational since 2017 at  new system measures for sandblasting and  Mammal Sanctuary, which was established 
the Monfalcone shipyard that is equipped  painting.  with the intent to safeguard various kinds of 
with a post-combustion system and allows  These latter work primarily involved the  marine life. 
the elimination of VOCs emitted during  Monfalcone shipyard, in line with the 
processing. improvement programme set up with  The production site at Marghera (surface 
VOC emissions relating to Fincantieri  the issue of the Integrated Environmental  area 370,000 m2), which is on the Venetian 
S.p.A.’s production units, in proportion to  Authorization. lagoon, is also considered part of the 
the production volume, have improved  On the other hand, at the Muggiano, Riva  UNESCO site - Venice and its Lagoon. 
significantly since 2017. Trigoso and Palermo shipyards, work was  In the United States Fincantieri Marinette 
carried out on the extraction and treatment  Marine is positioned next to the Menomonee, 
systems for welding fumes. in Wisconsin (for a surface area of 21,315 
OTHER EMISSIONS OF POLLUTING GASES
m2). The river in question is an area to be 
MEASUREMENT 
2018 2019
UNIT In the field of runoff water management,  protected, especially due to the quality 
works were carried out to upgrade the  of the waters, the marshland and the 
SOx t 0.74 0.06 rainwater collection systems in the quayside  ecosystem of aquatic flora and fauna.  VARD Promar, in Brazil, occupies a surface 
area in Sestri Ponente and to optimize the first  As regards the VARD group, the Tulcea  area of about 800,000 m2 and part of it 
rainwater treatment plants in the Marghera  shipyard, in Romania (for a surface area  (250,000 m2) is adjacent to the mangrove 
NOx t 24.5 24.7 and Palermo shipyards are particularly  of about 750,000 m2), is adjacent to  forest, considered by WWF to be a biome, 
important. Finally, the Arsenale Triestino San  the Danube Delta, an area protected by  that is, one of the fourteen major types of 
Marco has completed construction of the  UNESCO. The ISO 14001 certification,  habitat into which the Earth is divided.  Also 
VOC t 505 595 runoff water collection system and has agreed  obtained in 2012, certifies the presence of  in this case, specific and special precautions 
10%
with the operator to feed it into a special  the protections required to safeguard the  are put in place in accordance with local 
The data refer to the entire Fincantieri Group, except for VOCs which  network for subsequent treatment.  site. legislation.
concern Fincantieri S.p.A. and Fincantieri Marine Group.
170 171