FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
TO PROMOTE SUSTAINABILITY
As part of our activities, we act to raise awareness about issues related to  Energy saving and reduction of emissions Lower values of the index correspond to 
environmental risks and to encourage eco-sustainable behaviour greater energy efficiency. Regulations 
The International Convention for the  impose a decrease in values over time. In 
Prevention of Pollution from Ships  several cases, the ships built by Fincantieri 
(MARPOL) aims to prevent and minimize  anticipate the EEDI values, which are 
pollution from ships, both accidental  expected to be applied from 2025 onwards.
pollution and pollution resulting from routine  The EEDI scores obtained by Fincantieri’s 
operations. The MARPOL Annex VI sets  cruise ships delivered in the last 5 years with 
The Group’s activities also have an indirect  out the rules for calculating and verifying  respect to the provisions of the regulations 
impact on the environment, in particular  compliance with the limits set for the energy  on the index values, represented as time 
through our products, the supply chain and  efficiency of ships (Energy Efficiency Design  phase curves, are given below.
our partnerships. Index - EEDI).
OUR EVER GREENER SHIPS EEDI FOR CRUISE SHIPS
Cruise ships 
The cruise ship industry is highly 
The world of navigation, whether cruise,  committed to adopting policies to minimize 
19
merchant or naval, is going through a  environmental impact, this is a joint 
process of evolution under the principles  effort implemented by cruise lines and 
of sustainability and the circular economy.  shipbuilders.  17
For Fincantieri, this scenario is already a  The regulatory framework, with regulations 
consolidated reality and with our projects  at a global and local level, requires a rapid 
15
m)
wsacneed na tareerci olhit noeorfa lnollagyv icrigeadal teleisovinge,nl .a iTnt hgae  ts hsthrea ipftuestg uuicrne d er  rTbehedecuo rcmetdieou noc ntoieof  neo mfo tfish eseni ovmniroso sinntm tiome tpnhtoear lt aaiminr tpa ndadcrit vw eharasts e r.  gCO/GRT xn2 13 SShhipip 2 1 PPHHAASSEE  01
e (
construction will be increasingly resemble  for design and innovation in the field of  e lin Ship 3
c
a large, hyper-connected, energy self- cruise ships. en 11
sufficient, lighter and green or hybrid  Our ships represent a technological  Refer Ship 4 Ship 6 PHASE 2
Ship 5
propellant floating city, capable of recycling  benchmark at the European and global  9 Ship 7 Ship 8 PHASE 3
Ship 9
up to 90% of the waste produced.  level. They feature the most advanced 
With the technologies already applied today  technologies, with technical solutions that 
7
we are able to cut 1,200 tons of fuel per year  provide energy savings, emission reduction, 
on a ship of about 130 thousand GRT (gross  high performance and high quality.
registered tonnage). In particular, we follow all the international  5
15                              35                              55                              75                              95                             115                            135                            155                            175
best practices to minimize a ship’s 
Gross Tonnage (x1000)
environmental impact throughout its entire 
life cycle. 
- Phase 0-1 Jan. 13/31 Dec. 14 - Phase 1-1 Jan. 15/31 Dec. 19 - Phase 2-1 Jan. 20/31 Dec. 24 - Phase 3-1 Jan. 25/going forward
172 173