FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
However, there are critical issues related  The future lies in the application of fuel cells, 
to the new technologies. In general, the  electrochemical conversion devices that 
new technological solutions and systems  generate electricity and heat by combining 
introduced for the protection of the  a fuel (typically hydrogen, methanol or 
environment occupy volumes previously  methane) and a comburent (oxygen), in 
intended for the payload. In the case of  the absence of combustion. In this way, no 
LNG, accommodating the tanks on board  polluting substances are actually produced. 
(in addition to the liquid fuel tanks) and  After the initial development phase, linked 
installing the related operating and safety  to space exploration and the naval field 
systems entails a significant reduction of the  (submarines), terrestrial applications for the  In collaboration with the Consiglio Nazionale  The boat, called Zeus, will be powered by 
useful space on board. The development of  generation of electricity and propulsion (for  delle Ricerche (CNR, National Research  electric propulsion engines, which will be 
a logistics system capable of ensuring the  example prototype trains fuelled by fuel  Council) and the Universities of Genoa,  powered by a fuel cell system of about 120 
availability of LNG (including intermediate  cells) are spreading. Studies and research  Naples and Palermo, with the contribution  kW and a battery system capable of ensuring 
storage and bunkering systems) in all major  are being carried out on their application for  of the Italian Ministry of Economic  around 6 hours’ navigation autonomy at 
cruise destinations is still at an embryonic  generating energy for cruise ships. Development, we have developed a project  zero emissions, thanks to about 50 kg 
stage, consequently limiting the area of  to realize a laboratory ship approximately  of hydrogen contained in metal hydride 
operation on new ships. 25 metres long to study power generation  cylinders. Zeus will be the first marine vessel 
technologies with low environmental impact.  powered exclusively by fuel cells.
USE OF BATTERY MODULES
Treatment and storage of solid and liquid waste The increasingly stringent regulations in force 
To cover the  Supplementation of the electric 
in areas with a strong cruise vocation and 
entire load on  power supplied by the batteries with 
board a traditional generation system (as in  Waste treatment is regulated by MARPOL:  vulnerable ecosystems, such as Alaska and the 
hybrid cars). 
Baltic Sea, determine the characteristics of the 
The energy supplied by the batteries 
is used: • Annex I Prevention of pollution by oil and oily  latest generation cruise ships. 
water. Only bacteriologically and chemically pure 
• exclusively in particular situations 
• Annex IV Prevention of pollution by sewage. water, with an extremely low hydrocarbon 
(for example in port), or 
• Annex V Prevention of pollution by  content, can be discharged into the sea 
• supplemented by the on-board 
diesel engines at times of  shipboard waste. (under certain conditions) in these areas. Any 
maximum power demand (e.g.  other residue must be stored on board and 
maximum speed navigation).
unloaded in port for further treatment. 
176 177