FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
The processes for treating, sorting and  Naval vessels  submarines, studies are underway for the 
disposing of the waste produced on board are  use of fuel cells on naval vessels.
shown in the diagram below.  The naval vessel construction business is 
strongly influenced by the continual demand 
to increase efficiency standards in the  Energy saving and reduction of emissions
WASTE TREATMENT
international defense segment and is one 
SOLID WASTE LIQUID WASTE of the most demanding challenges. We are  This issue is dealt with by introducing 
a reference player for many Navies and we  energy savings criteria developed mainly 
- collection, dehumidification, kitchen waste  - physical and biological treatment (in line 
face tough challenges with our consolidated  in ship architecture, namely by selecting 
treatment; with the best land standards) of all on-board 
- sorting and recycling of hotel waste; wastewater (sewage, grey water, kitchen  experience in the design sector; since 1990,  endothermic engines (both propulsion 
effluents and laundries);
- compaction and/or incineration (where  Fincantieri has delivered over 100 naval  engines and power generation engines) with 
permitted) of solid waste; - storage of purified water;
vessels to ten different nations.  appropriate technological solutions and by 
- pelletizing, storage of waste for  - thickening and drying of residual sludge for 
subsequent unloading in port. subsequent unloading in port. Its consolidated experience has enabled it  selecting high energy efficiency materials or 
to combine the development of platforms  materials with high efficiency heat transfer.
with high operational performance with 
the development of solutions aimed at  AREAS OF  EMISSIONS REDUCTION OF NAVAL  
INTERVENTION TO  FIGHTING VESSELS WITH A  
Ballast water treatment Although the disposal of materials at the  containing environmental impacts. 
REDUCE EMISSIONS DISPLACEMENT FROM 6,000 TONS (*)
end of the ship’s operational life is not part 
The ballast water treatment regulations,  of the ship’s construction activities because  Thanks to the adoption of an eco-sustainable  CO [t/YEAR] NO [t/YEAR]
2 X
International Convention for the Control and  it is managed directly by the shipowners,  design process and the increased sensitivity 
Optimization of hull lines
Management of Ships’ Ballast Water and  cruise ships built by Fincantieri have voluntary  towards ecological issues shown by Navies, 
Introduction of LED lights
Sediments (BWM 2004), require ships to  certifications such as Green Passport, Clean  we have been able to operate in many 
sterilize ballast water before discharging it,  Ship or Eco (the name of the certification  fields, adopting solutions aimed at reducing  Painting of  ~ 2,000 ~ 40
superstructures with low 
to avoid contamination with species from  is different depending on the classification  environmental impact. We have collaborated  sun absorption paints
different ecosystems. society). These certifications include our  with the Italian Navy for many years,  Optimized insulation  
commitment to provide, on delivery of  focusing on environmental impact issues  of internal areas
the ship, the list of hazardous materials in  right from the preliminary project. The new 
* Use profile: 50,000 nautical miles/year.
BALLAST WATER TREATMENT accordance with the Hong Kong Convention  vessels, some of which are already in service, 
for the safe and environmentally friendly  feature design choices aimed at containing  On the other hand, the special characteristics 
recycling of ships, adopted by IMO’s MEPC  environmental impact in terms of emissions  of naval vessels and the consequent system 
Latest generation of ballast water treatment 
systems, based on the pre-filtering of  197 (62). The classification society will  to air, fuel consumption, wastewater  solutions optimized to deliver mission 
plankton and subsequent sterilization with 
carry out periodic audits throughout the  treatment, use of special treatments to  performance currently do not enable the 
ultraviolet rays.
life of the ship to ensure compliance with  preserve the hull and the possibility, for  introduction of energy recovery systems.
environmental standards and maintenance of  certain vessels to be delivered shortly, to 
its environmental certification.   contain an area of sea that is polluted, with 
the possibility of collecting and storing the 
pollutants on board.
As regards power generation, building 
on more than ten years of experience of 
178 179