FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
Treatment and storage of liquid and solid  kept under control, guaranteeing a maximum  to monitor the product’s environmental  impact during the entire life cycle of the 
waste concentration of 15 ppm.   sustainability trends over time.  product: from technical design development 
to the choice of systems and materials, 
The technological solutions adopted for the  As regards end of life, all naval vessels are  The foundation of the entire process of  from procurement to construction, from its 
treatment of solid waste are entrusted to the  also delivered with a Green Passport. This  eco-sustainable design lies in the ability  management in operation to disposal at its 
converters. The use of these machines enables  document is the inventory of materials to be  to contain and improve the environmental  end of life.
waste to be dried and sterilized. The reduction  monitored during the ship’s life cycle and it 
in volume and weight and subsequent  is used to ensure that it is scrapped safely 
automatic vacuum storage allow on-board  and in an environmentally friendly way.  
retention to be increased. The modern  FINCANTIERI
converters adopted enable a volume reduction 
of 70% and weight reduction of 30%. Eco-sustainable design  
For liquid waste, we have adopted 
TESTING
SPECIFICATIONS DESIGN PURCHASING CONSTRUCTION OPERATION
technological solutions that are in line with  DELIVERY
the international regulations already used for 
merchant vessels:
PLAN
• IMO MEPC 227 (62) for grey water and  OBJECTIVE
COMPLETED CUSTOMER CUSTOMER
sewage treatment.
IN 2019 
• IMO MEPC 107 (49) for bilge water 
treatment.
Grey water and sewage are collected into  Identifying solutions that reduce energy  on the environment, have the additional 
appropriate physical and chemical treatment  consumption, atmospheric emissions, waste  purpose of making work easier and making 
units which macerate the suspended  production and improve the environmental  the hospitality provided on board more 
solids and reduce the contents of the Total  In line with the Environmental Policy  impact of the production process and  comfortable. 
Suspended Solids (TSS), Biochemical Oxygen  guidelines and the objectives of the  materials used, taking as reference similar  Finally, it should be stressed that sustainability 
Demand (BOD) and Chemical Oxygen  Sustainability Plan, the design process has  products as well as “best in class”, therefore  assessments are also taken into account with 
Demand (COD) using aerobic processes. The  been revised with reference to the basic  benefits the entire context (population and  regard to decommissioning activities, helping 
process also envisages disinfection using UV  principles and logic of eco-sustainable  surrounding area) in which the individual  to guide choices on materials, components 
systems.  design and the related requirements have  production site is located. and systems with characteristics that limit 
The systems adopted are able to achieve BOD  been incorporated into a specific procedure. The design choices made in relation to  the environmental impact of the dismantling 
values of 25 mg/l and COD values of 125 mg/l.  managing the ship during its operation and  and disposal operations at the end of 
Bilge water is treated using units that separate  As part of this, and with reference to the  its performance, in addition to seeking to  the product’s life, which remain the sole 
the pollutants caused by accidental spills.  different environmental aspects, we have  contain consumption and minimize the impact  responsibility of the shipowner.
The system is based on physical processes  defined criteria to enhance internally the 
for viscosity reduction and then absorption  technological solutions adopted for each 
using coalescent filters. Separation enables the  ship built. This approach makes it possible 
level of pollutants in the treated water to be  to compare the different constructions and 
180 181