FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
WE RAISE OUR PARTNERS’ AWARENESS OF  TOGETHER FOR A MORE SUSTAINABLE 
ECO-SUSTAINABILITY ENVIRONMENT
We ask our suppliers to share our approach  sharing principles and commitments on  Respect for the environment, for local territories  the Ministry’s technical experts.
to sustainability in order to achieve one of  environmental protection, with the common  and for the people with whom we share areas  As part of our Research and Innovation 
our most important corporate objectives:  goal of achieving a sustainable supply chain  and activities are essential elements in order  projects, we have launched several 
having a responsible and sustainable supply  while minimizing environmental impact. For  to ensure the continuity and growth of our  initiatives within the framework of European 
chain. this reason we have adopted the Suppliers’  Group over time and to the benefit of future  collaborations to study strategies to reduce 
Code of Ethics that includes among its  generations. the environmental impact of our products, 
We want to represent a model of excellence  pillars the protection of and respect for  Therefore, we are directly involved in the  in particular, with reference to the initiatives 
also in terms of environmental protection  the environment. Suppliers are asked  development of international regulations and  underway to contribute to the SDG 14 
and this is why we have a binding  to share the principles contained in the  we conduct our business in close collaboration  objective - life below water, studies are being 
environmental policy for all our employees  document with their employees, subsidiaries,  with the flag agency, classification societies,  carried out to reduce underwater noise caused 
and for all external companies operating in  collaborators and subcontractors, with a  the sector’s industrial associations, shipping  by our products, even though there are no 
our production sites. We are committed to  view to encouraging virtuous behaviour  companies and the main international research  strict regulations on this issue.
the implementation and maintenance of an  throughout the supply chain. bodies. An agreement was signed between 
Environmental Management System at our  Fincantieri, Eni, Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, and 
sites and obtaining ISO 14001 certification  For more information on the supply chain, please refer to the  Terna with the aim of developing energy 
chapter “For a sustainable supply chain”.
for most of them. We expect all our suppliers  systems with reduced environmental impact. 
PLAN
to align themselves with this approach,  Experimentation of a system that uses wave 
OBJECTIVE
COMPLETED motion to produce electricity is part of this 
IN 2019  approach.
We also believe in the value of transparency 
in reporting and we are guiding change in this 
Research plays a particularly important role in  direction. As proof of this, in 2016 we joined 
the fight against climate change. Therefore, the  the CDP Climate Change Programme, a 
Sustainability Plan includes a specific objective  prestigious British organization whose goal is 
that provides for the activation of partnerships  to improve the management of environmental 
with universities/research institutes in  risks by leveraging information transparency. 
order to develop new solutions for energy  The programme asks the world’s largest 
efficiency or reduction of greenhouse gas  companies from all sectors to participate 
emissions. In particular, a project was launched  in an annual survey of their approach to 
in 2019 to study proposals for regulations  managing their environmental risks and of the 
allowing the use of fuel cells on board ships,  results they achieved. The extensive database 
with particular focus on passenger ships.  resulting from this survey is made available to 
Fincantieri also presented a project proposal  stakeholders.
called GreenCruise to the Italian Ministry for  In 2019, the Fincantieri Group obtained the
Economic Development to study and develop  B rating, on a scale ranging from the minimum 
prototypes of power generation solutions  D to the maximum A, which testifies to the 
using alternative fuels (e.g. LNG and fuel cells).  effectiveness of the actions it has taken in the 
This second project is awaiting evaluation by  fight against climate change.
For more information on our collaborations, please refer to the chapter “For innovation”.
182 183