FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
METHODOLOGICAL NOTE
The third Sustainability Report of the  For further detail on the information required 
Fincantieri Group, approved by the Board of  by the Standards and the indicators reported, 
Directors on 1 April 2020, is a communication  please refer to the table shown in the annex to 
tool that describes, in a transparent and  this document.
structured manner, the economic, social 
and environmental results achieved, and  Sustainability reporting is preceded annually  In 2019, the Fincantieri Group decided to join  The reporting process is based on the current 
demonstrates the Group’s commitment to  by the analysis and identification of material  the Global Compact, the initiative to promote  information systems used by the main 
sustainable development, with the aim of  topics (materiality matrix page 26), i.e.  and disseminate sustainable development  company units are have been integrated using 
creating value not only for the Company, but  those which reflect the significant impacts  practices launched and sponsored by the  specific data collection sheets and supported 
also for its stakeholders.  for the organization from an economic,  United Nations, and has therefore committed  by operating manuals in which the methods 
social and environmental viewpoint, and  itself to integrating the ten principles relating  for collecting the indicators have been defined. 
The Report represents the Consolidated  which substantially influence stakeholders’  to human rights, labour rights, environmental  The data were processed and validated also 
Non-Financial Statement of the Fincantieri  assessments and decisions, and by the  protection and combating corruption into its  by the various function managers.
Group prepared in accordance with Articles  mapping and risk management methods.  policies, strategies and activities.
3 and 4 of Legislative Decree No. 254/16,  As required by the Decree, for each theme  The Sustainability Report represents the  To enable data and information comparability 
with reference to the 2019 financial year  evidence is given on its materiality in relation  Communication on Progress (COP) related to  over time and assess the Group’s performance, 
(from 1 January to 31 December 2019). This  to Group’s activities, the risks connected with  the activity carried out in 2019. In particular,  comparison with the previous year is given 
document reports, to the extent necessary  it, the Company’s policies and commitments  a table has been prepared (see appendix),  where possible. Furthermore, in order to 
to ensure an understanding of the activities  and the results obtained and monitored using  which summarises the actions taken and the  correctly show performance and guarantee 
of the company, its progress, its results and  ad hoc indicators capable of representing the  results achieved in relation to each of the  the reliability of the data, the use of estimates 
its impact, in relation to the areas considered  results in terms of management.  above principles and references the pages of  was limited to the minimum possible and, if 
important and required by Article 3 of the  the Sustainability Report where these topics  present, these are based on the best methods 
Decree.  With reference to the requirements of Article  are discussed in greater detail. available and appropriately described. 
3, paragraph 2 of Legislative Decree 254/16,  The document seeks to present the positive 
As required by Article 5 of the Decree this  some information not considered relevant for  The process of collecting data and information  and negative aspects in an equal light and, 
document is a distinct report with the  an understanding of the company, its progress,  and drafting the Report is coordinated  where considered appropriate, a comment on 
appropriate wording to identify it as the  results and impact has been excluded.  and managed by the Sustainability unit,  the results has been provided. The economic 
Consolidated Non-Financial Disclosure (NFD)  in cooperation with the multifunctional  values are expressed in euros (thousands and/
required by the regulation.  Fincantieri defined its Sustainability Plan,  Working Group. The Report’s contents have  or millions of euros). Sometimes the data are 
approved by the Board of Directors, which is  been defined according to the principles  rounded to one decimal point or to a round 
The contents of the Report have been  aligned to the 2018-2022 Business Plan and  of accuracy, balance, clarity, comparability,  number, and therefore their sum may not 
prepared in accordance with the Global  highlights and strengthens the intention to  reliability and timeliness.  coincide exactly with the total value.
Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability  be a responsible Group. The Plan addresses 
Reporting Standards of 2016, with the  some global challenges (such as the UN’s  The Sustainability Report has been prepared in  The reporting boundary of the data presented 
exception of the GRI 303 – Water and  Sustainability Development Goals) and details  accordance with a specific internal procedure  in the Report relates to the companies 
Effluents and GRI 403 – Occupational Health  the commitments undertaken by the Group  that defines the roles, responsibilities and  fully consolidated (using the line-by-line 
and Safety indicators which implement the  and breaks them down into qualitative and  operating methods that Fincantieri S.p.A.’s  method) in the consolidation area used 
GRI 2018 Standard. The Report has been  quantitative targets that can be measured  and subsidiaries’ staff must follow in order  for the consolidated financial statements. 
prepared in accordance with GRI Standards:  over time and subjects them to constant  to guarantee the proper management of all  Any limitations to the reporting boundary 
Core option. monitoring. the data required to prepare the document.  specified above or clarifications concerning 
186 187