FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
MATERIAL ASPECTS
the calculation method are indicated in  a better estimate was produced to represent 
the relevant sections of the document. In  the multiplier effects that Fincantieri is able to  MATERIAL ASPECTS FOR FINCANTIERI BOUNDARY OF ASPECT
GRI STANDARD TOPICS
particular, with regard to the indicator of  produce within the national economic system,  MACRO AREA MATERIAL TOPIC INTERNAL EXTERNAL
the direct economic value generated and  based on the specific production and business 
Organizational profile; Ethics 
distributed (201-1) in 2019, the method of  model developed and pursued in recent years  and integrity; Governance; 
Supply chain; 
Governance and  Stakeholder engagement; 
calculating the amounts allocated to the  and the structure of the supply chain, with the  business integrity Indirect economic impacts,  Group Customers; 
Community
Anti-corruption; Anti-
community was revised in order to bring it  relative levels of integration upstream of the 
competitive behaviour
closer to the London Benchmarking Group  production cycle for naval vessels.  
Governance Supply chain; 
(LBG) model. It should be noted that with  Cyber security Ethics and integrity; Customer  Group Customers; 
privacy
Community
regard to the raw materials indicator (301-1)  The document was also the subject of a 
the 2018 data have been revised following the  limited assurance engagement according to  Economic and financial  Supply chain; 
Economic performance Group Customers; 
sustainability
inclusion of the VARD group data excluding  the criteria indicated in the revised ISAE 3000  Community
nitrogen and iron, the latter was provided only  standard involving the independent auditors  Economic  Procurement practices; 
for Fincantieri S.p.A. and Fincantieri Marine  PwC S.p.A. who, at the end of their work,  resp. Procurement activities Environmental and social  Group Supply chain
assessment of suppliers
Group for both 2018 and 2019. Fincantieri  issued the report required under Legislative 
Market presence; Employment; 
Marine Group’s 2018 data for the procurement  Decree 254/16 and Consob Regulation 20267  Protection of  Labour/management relations; 
employment and  Group Community
Freedom of association and 
of materials has been revised for comparative  of 2019 concerning the compliance of the  industrial relationships
collective bargaining
purposes and as a result of improved  information supplied in the Sustainability 
Training and education Training and education Group  
collection systems. Fincantieri Marine Systems  Report - Consolidated Non-Financial 
Human
Company welfare Employment Group
North America provided data for the first  Statement prepared by Fincantieri under  resources resp.
year on employee journeys by air and by car.  Legislative Decree 254/16 and in accordance  Diversity and equal  Diversity and equal opportunity  Group
opportunity
As a result, indirect Scope 3 greenhouse gas  with the reporting standard adopted. 
Health and safety in the 
(GHG) emissions (305-3) for both years were  Occupational health and safety Group
workplace
also integrated with emissions from ferrous  The Sustainability Report is required to be 
Local communities and 
Local communities; Public 
materials and those for 2018 were revised  published annually. The document is also  relations with the local  Group Community
policy
area
following the update of the data on raw  available on the website (www.fincantieri.
materials and material procurement data. com), in the Sustainability section.  Social resp. Human rights Environmental and social  Group Supply chain, 
assessment of suppliers Community
Fincantieri Marine Group’s 2018 data on 
Product quality and 
minority groups included in the indicator  For any further information it is possible to  compliance with  Customer health and 
safety; Customer privacy;  Group Customers
technical regulations 
(405-1) have been reclassified for comparison  contact the Sustainability unit at the email  Socioeconomic compliance
and standards
purposes to adapt them to the definition that  address sustainability@fincantieri.it
Stakeholder engagement; 
is common to the whole Group. Product Innovation, research  Customer health and safety;  Group Customers; 
and development Supply chain
resp. Emissions
With regard to the analysis and description of  Customer satisfaction Stakeholder engagement Group Customers
the main indirect economic impacts associated  Climate change Emissions  Group Community, 
Environment
with outsourcing of the production chain 
Materials, Energy; Water 
(203-2), Fincantieri has used an econometric  Environmental  and effluents; Biodiversity,  Community, 
Group
management Emissions, Effluents and waste;  Environment 
model developed by Censis (a Foundation 
Environmental compliance
Environmental 
recognized with Decree of the President of the 
resp. Environmental impact 
Republic No. 712/1973). Based on this model,  of products and  Emissions Group Environment
services
188 189