FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
DESCRIPTION OF MATERIAL TOPICS
Governance and business integrity   company. Individual growth comes with  Environmental management  Health and safety in the workplace  
Business integrity is the capacity to develop  constant collaboration and cooperation,  Environmental protection is at the centre of  Safety at work is a condition for the 
the business fairly and transparently and is a  factoring in common ideas and practice,  the activities of the Company, which must  performance of work without exposure 
key factor characterizing the identity of the  skills and actions, international exchange and  commit itself, in carrying out its activities,  to the risk of accidents or occupational 
Group, as well as an important element in its  comparison and a multidisciplinary approach.  to making the principles of environmental  disease. Historically Fincantieri has dedicated 
reputation.  Industrial relations in Fincantieri are based  sustainability its own, both in its strategic  significant effort to the protection of health 
Responsible governance ensures fair and  on a participative model which values and  choices and in its business processes.  and safety; over the years it has promoted a 
transparent conditions in the conduct of  enhances the role of trade unions and workers,  To this end it must commit itself to improving  profound change in safety culture, as a first 
business affairs and the related company  also through the establishment of appropriate  energy efficiency and saving, proper  step towards further development. The key 
activities, protecting the company image  joint committees.  management of water resources and correct  element is personnel training as a tool for risk 
and reputation, meeting the expectations of  disposal of waste and effluent.  prevention.
stakeholders and safeguarding the work of  Procurement activities  Safeguarding the natural value of the 
employees. A significant portion of the overall value  areas affected by shipyard activities is also  Training and education 
of each ship depends on materials, parts,  important. To protect these delicate places,  Investment in staff training and development is 
Cyber security components and turnkey systems supplied  specific and special precautions are put in  of strategic importance in terms of restoring a 
The focus on cyber security has gradually  by third parties. The Group actively manages  place in accordance with local legislation. high level of skill and know-how in the field, at 
intensified in response to the ever-increasing  its make-or-buy procurement strategies and  all levels. 
complexity and frequency of cyber attacks  therefore the size of the contribution of third  Environmental impact of products and  Accordingly the training on offer has been 
carried out against companies with national  party suppliers to the overall value of the  services  expanded with new technical and managerial 
and international strategic importance, making  project, also through rigorous qualification  The Group operates with a “life cycle”  training programmes.
it necessary to constantly adapt the corporate  processes. approach, aiming to minimize the 
defences and processes for safeguarding IT  environmental and social impact of a product  Local communities and relations with the 
assets. Product quality and compliance with  or service over its life cycle, departing  local area  
Protecting the integrity and confidentiality  technical standards  therefore from a model which sees the impact  Local development is directly linked both 
of data and information has become a pillar  Excellent levels of quality are in the DNA of the  on the environment and society of only  with business activities and with the ability to 
of the corporate digital strategy. The Group  Group, because the complexity of its business  production activities, and broadening the  systematically involve local players, showing 
guarantees the protection of computer  requires high standards in terms of quality and  analysis of possible negative external effects  awareness of the impact on the community. 
systems and data by avoiding the risk of  compliance with technical regulations and  to all the links in the value chain In terms of business activities, networks of 
network breaches, corruption of sensitive data  standards, at each stage of the production  small and medium-sized enterprises (SME), 
or processes, using prevention, detection and  process. Responsibility for ensuring quality is  Diversity and equal opportunity  highly specialized in various macro-sectors, 
measures against potential cyber attacks.  widespread and shared. Diversity allows all the transformations  are engaged.  
and changes currently taking place to be  In addition, initiatives to promote the 
Economic and financial sustainability  Customer satisfaction  embraced and represents an open, flexible  development of local communities are 
The Group is committed to increasingly  Customers and their satisfaction are at the  and helpful relational approach. With regard to  stimulated and encouraged, with the aim of 
sustainable and responsible performance,  centre of the Group’s interest; customer  equal opportunities, significant commitment  creating shared value.
creating the conditions for development which  satisfaction is pursued by constantly involving  has been given to increasing the presence of 
meets the needs and expectations of all its  the customer at the execution stage, in the  women in the Company. Human rights 
stakeholders. continuous monitoring of quality and through  The Company has a strong commitment to 
the offer of innovative products. Company welfare  ensuring that the skills and competencies of 
Innovation, research and development   This is an innovative tool which permits  each employee are developed and maintained, 
Technological excellence is a key element  Climate change  efficient management of resources and  both through recognition of merit and respect 
of the Group’s entrepreneurial approach,  The Group manages the risks related to  provides an alternative to traditional pay and  for equal opportunities, with the aim of 
which allows it to maintain and strengthen  climate change, constantly researching new  incentive mechanisms. The ultimate aim is to  safeguarding the human rights sanctioned by 
its competitiveness and leading position in  methods to improve its practices and minimize  improve the quality of life and wellbeing of  the Universal Declaration of the UN. Moreover 
complex, markets with high potential. the impact of emissions resulting from its  employees and their families. the Group has always paid the maximum 
industrial activities. It supports research  attention to ensuring transparency and 
Employment protection and trade union  projects in collaboration with research  observance of agreements and laws governing 
relations institutes/universities on issues associated with  the contracting (tendering) system, a key 
People are the key assets of the Group and  climate risks. element in its own development capacity and 
their protection generates wealth for the  competitiveness in the relevant markets. 
190 191