FINCANTIERI GROUP FINCANTIERI GROUP
GLOBAL COMPACT RECONCILIATION TABLE
THE TEN PRINCIPLES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 PAGE THE TEN PRINCIPLES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 PAGE
Human rights Environment
The Company is committed to ensuring and promoting  Fincantieri is committed to:
respect for human rights, a priority for the Group, in all 
business areas and among all stakeholders, whether Group  Principles 7, 8, 9 - Businesses are  • reducing its direct impact by reducing consumption and waste 
employees or suppliers. The activities are conducted in  required to support a  produced, and prioritizing the use of eco-sustainable resources, 
accordance with fundamental human rights standards. As 
precautionary approach to  such as certified energy from renewable sources;
proof of this commitment, the Group’s policies and practices 
environmental challenges;   • protecting the environment and seeing the environmental 
are aligned with:
undertake initiatives that  management system as the tool for implementing and 
Principles 1, 2 - Businesses are  156-183
promote greater environmental  monitoring the actions taken to carry out the commitments 
required to promote and respect  • the International Bill of Human Rights, including the United  46-47;
responsibility; and encourage the  made;
universally recognized human  Nations (UN) Universal Declaration on Human Rights; 51-54;
rights within their sphere of  • fundamental Conventions of the International Labor  96-101; development and diffusion  • following all the international best practices to minimize a ship’s 
influence and to ensure that they  Organization (ILO); 128-130; of environmentally friendly  environmental impact throughout its entire life cycle. The Group 
are not complicit in human rights  • Guidelines of the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and  136 technologies. is committed to developing new technologies to save energy, 
abuses, even indirectly. Development (OECD) for Multinational Enterprises; reduce emissions and increase the performance and quality of 
• the Ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. its ships;
• also making its suppliers aware of environmental aspects.
Fincantieri promotes sustainability and business ethics in the 
supply chain by conducting human rights, environmental, 
occupational health and safety audits on its suppliers.
Anti-corruption
Fincantieri protects health and safety at work through  Fincantieri disseminates ethical principles and corporate values 
training, awareness and information initiatives. Principle 10 - Businesses are  and provides training on legality and anti-corruption issues. 
committed to working against 
corruption in all its forms, including  46-50
Fincantieri carries out reputational audits on suppliers and third 
extortion and bribery.
parties. 
Labour
Fincantieri is committed to complying with the ILO’s four core  No corruption cases were reported in 2019.
labour standards, as set forth in the Declaration on Fundamental 
Principles and Rights at Work: Fincantieri is also committed to contributing to the achievement 
Support for the Sustainable 
of the Sustainable Development Goals defined by the United 
Development Objectives 32-35
• freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining; Nations, in particular, the Company is active on goals 7, 8, 9, 12, 13 
• elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour; and 14.
• effective abolition of child labour;
Principles 3, 4, 5, 6 - Businesses are  • elimination of all forms of discrimination in respect of 
required to uphold workers’  employment and occupation.
freedom of association and 
recognize the right to collective  Fincantieri rejects any form of discrimination based on ethnicity,  46-47;
bargaining; the elimination of all  colour, gender, age, disability, sexual orientation, religion,  51-54;
forms of forced and compulsory  political opinion, nationality and social origin. It is committed  96-101;
labour; the effective abolition of  to maintaining a work environment that is free from any and all  120-143
child labour; the elimination of all  forms of violence or harassment. 
forms of discrimination in respect 
of employment and occupation. Fincantieri regulates its relationships with political organizations 
and labour unions exclusively based on the current laws, 
regulations and agreements/contracts, guaranteeing the highest 
principles of transparency and correct conduct.
Fincantieri is committed to initiatives to balance life and work.
Fincantieri provides employees with training and professional 
development paths.
192 193