Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
be remembered that the objectives set by the PNIEC (Integrated National Plan for Energy and Climate) are very 
ambitious and foresee that in 2030 renewable energy will cover more than half of gross electricity consumption 
(55.4%). To this end, it will be necessary to install about 40 GW of new RES capacity by 2030, which is supplied 
almost exclusively from non-programmable renewable sources such as wind and photovoltaic11.  
 
 
ELISA  
The Innovation Board's second project in 2019 relates to the direct customer relationships. ELISA is an 
advanced chatbot or virtual assistant that uses artificial intelligence and machine learning to respond to 
customers appropriately and with consistent language. ELISA has the ability to simulate a human conversation 
with algorithms that evolve gradually with experience and interaction. ELISA can provide customers with 
general service information, direct them to web pages with instructions and information, present new products, 
arrange appointments and manage reservations. By talking to customers, it can give them the answers they 
need, leaving operators to deal with more complex issues with a higher technical-commercial value. The 
service is particularly useful in light of the increasing complexity dealing with customers and of the higher 
numbers of channels to be monitored (email, telephone, social-media networks and messages). Implementing 
ELISA therefore achieved three objectives: optimising customer-care services; automating communication 
processes and freeing-up staff; and reducing repetitive low-value activities. The chatbot uses IBM's WATSON 
technology and is available for Alperia Smart Service, Edyna and Smart Mobility (Neogy) Ecoplus structures 
and the IT Help Desk. It answers enquiries 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and integrates perfectly with social-
media channels, apps and the Alperia website.  
 
 
LIFE4HeatRecovery  
Alperia's Engineering & Consulting department worked with partners EURAC Research, COGEME SpA and 
Linea Group Holding on the LIFE4HeatRecovery project. The project focuses on the development of a new 
generation of intelligent district heating and cooling networks where low temperature (10-40°C) waste heat 
sources can be supplied to consumers. LIFE4HeatRecovery solutions will effectively integrate multiple waste 
heat sources from urban wastewater and service buildings, allowing a network to be designed providing 
consumers with reliable, safe and clean thermal energy. LIFE4HeatRecovery will also develop innovative 
financing mechanisms based on public-private partnerships and active participation models. This strategy 
brings together European customers, network owners and investors in a single activity and also has a social 
dimension, creating new business opportunities and chances for participation. This puts users at the centre; 
they become protagonists in the heating and cooling market. The project, which will be developed by a 
consortium of ten public and private actors, including energy consultants, utility companies and researchers, 
will be implemented in four district heating networks: Ospitaletto (Brescia), Wüstenrott in Germany and 
Rotterdam and Heerlen in the Netherlands. 
 
 
Zero Emission LIFE IP  
Alperia collaborates with the Autostrada del Brennero A22, Azienda Pubbliservizi Brunico, Eurac Research 
Institute,  Vinschgauer  Energie  Konsortium, IIT  (Institute  for Technology  Innovation  Bolzano)  and  STA 
(Strutture Trasporto Alto Adige SpA) on the Zero Emission Services for a Decarbonised Alpine Economy 
project, coordinated by the SASA transport company. The project is based on the 2050 South Tyrol Climate 
Plan, which aims to reduce CO  emissions in various sectors, contributing to the green transformation of South 
2
Tyrol. To make this happen, the partners have joined forces to expand the infrastructure network for zero-
emission mobility, put pilot fleets on the road and develop zero-emission services (e.g. taxis, shuttle services 
and freight transport). Specifically, Alperia is dealing with the installation and management of six fast-charging 
columns in the province. The project launched on 1 January 2019, and will continue for eight years. 
 
 
Smart Land 
A third of South Tyrolean companies are in the agricultural sector: 50% of apples sold in Italy are produced in 
South Tyrol, and the province is one of the leading producers of white wine in Italy. Therefore, agriculture's 
contribution to the local economy is fundamental. This is why Alperia collaborates with the Laimburg Research 
Centre and the Fruit and Vegetable Consultation Centre to develop new technology solutions to make 
agriculture even more sustainable and efficient. These activities are part of the Smart Land project, which aims 
to make cultivation irrigation even more intelligent and respectful of resources. Over 120 soil-moisture sensors 
                                                
   
11 https://www.terna.it/it/sistema-elettrico/ruolo-terna/insight  
 
  112 