Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
Sustainable products and services {GRI EU7; 302-5; ALP4; ALP5} 
 
 
Risk management 
   
   
Risk  Management Approach 
   
   
Risk of failure/inadequate development of  We want to develop new business activities in line with the 100% Green DNA 
new energy concepts (e.g. products and  concept, promote the take-up and purchase of green products and increase 
services)  with  potential  impact  on  the  the sales share of sustainable products and services. For this reason, we are 
strategic objectives to make the business  examining  consumer  behaviour  programmes  aimed  at  stimulating  the 
100% green  purchase of green products. 
   
Risk  of failure/inadequate  management  We want to promote electromobility and the charging infrastructure in South 
and  development  of  electromobility  Tyrol. To achieve this, we are making Alperia an e-mobility service provider 
services and support infrastructures  and installing charging infrastructures in the area. 
 
 
In 2019, Alperia generated a 40% revenue share through sustainable products and services. In 2018, that 
share was 49%. The lower percentage recorded in 2019 is due to the fact that there was a sharp increase in 
overall revenues from trading activities. Revenues from sustainable products and services alone increased by 
1.6% year-on-year. The objective, in line with the next business plan, is to significantly increase this share, 
investing increasingly in green gas, green energy, district heating, energy efficiency and electric mobility. 
 
 
Green Energy and Green Gas {GRI 302.4}  
 
Alperia is one of Italy's leading green-energy companies. It produces energy from renewable sources, through 
its managed hydroelectric plants within the province. In 2019 these plants, together with solar energy and 
biomass, generated around 4,3 TWh/year (around 4,2 TWh/year in 2018) of energy from renewable sources. 
Most power stations are certified, meaning that they produce 100% of CO -free renewable energy in 
2
accordance with current legislation, thereby ensuring a sustainable energy supply. This renewable energy is 
made available to both private and corporate customers, in line with the Province of Bolzano’s 2050 Climate 
Plan (for more information, visit: www.ambiente.provincia.bz.it). In this way, Alperia customers can supply 
themselves with clean energy, produced from the power of the water that flows from South Tyrol’s mountains, 
effectively contributing to climate protection. By taking up this type of energy, the same companies can meet 
the usage requirements of some of Europe’s most environmental certification branding; Alperia provides them 
with an extensive communications package free of charge. The package includes Green Energy certification, 
a metal tag or Green Energy logo, which can be published on the website or printed on corporate material and 
product packaging. The same applies to those choosing green gas, a climate neutral gas, the emissions of 
which are offset with climate-protection projects and certified annually by TÜV NORD, an established 
independent  certification  body.  Alperia  supports  projects  that  promote  energy  efficiency,  green-  and 
sustainable-energy production and reforestation. The projects comply with the Gold Standard and/or the 
Verified Carbon Standard, and meet the Kyoto Protocol criteria and requirements. Offsetting greenhouse gas 
emissions helps to generate a climate-neutral and environmentally friendly lifestyle. This is why Alperia invests 
in promoting green gas, and will increasingly do so in the future. To avoid additional emissions generated by 
using the postal service, green gas bills are sent exclusively in a digital format. In 2019, green gas was also 
offered to residential and business users outside of South Tyrol.  
 
Currently, 100% of the electricity sold in South Tyrol to residential customers is green; the figures for gas will 
increase by 2020. 
 
For TU.GG. customers, who enjoy higher protection and in South Tyrol are managed by Alperia, the company 
supplies the energy mix required by the energy regulator, ARERA.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  118 