Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
Energy efficiency  
 
In 2018, Alperia founded Alperia Bartucci, acquiring 60% of the shares of Bartucci SpA, a leading Italian 
company in the sector. The company specialises in the planning and implementation of measures for industrial 
energy efficiency and integrated energy services. Alperia Bartucci serves over 300 customers located 
throughout Italy and employs a team of more than 50 professionals capable of identifying the best solutions to 
minimise production-process energy consumption. In addition to the normal ESCO services (consultancy and 
E.P.C. with efficient technologies from third party suppliers), Alperia Bartucci offers its customers energy-
efficiency measures based on patented proprietary technology. It is able to design, develop and implement 
Advanced Process Control Systems (APC) based on multivariable and predictive algorithms that automatically 
regulate the production process, seeking a reduction in costs related to the primary energy consumed. In 2019, 
Alperia Bartucci’s business developed in various directions:  
 
-  energy efficiency measures through its own investment in EPC (Energy Performance Contracts), 
which combine the advantages of financing through third parties for the purchase of technology with 
customer performance remuneration 
-  energy-efficiency monitoring in Alperia offices 
-  launch of building energy efficiency through the aforementioned Sybil system and tax credits for 
construction activities on large buildings and smaller-scale activities, from windows to centralised 
condominium boilers 
 
The monitoring and diagnosis of consumption at Alperia offices began at the end of 2018, and continued 
throughout 2019. It involved the district heating plants in Bolzano and Sesto; the Cardano, Bressanone and 
Ponte Gardena plants; the Edyna offices; the Alperia SpA headquarters in via Dodiciville in Bolzano; and 
Alperia Energy, located at piazza Mazzini in Bolzano. Alperia Bartucci used the energy-diagnosis tool to 
identify a series of possible activities to be carried out at the assessed plants and locations. The following was 
identified for each activity: expected energy savings, investment cost, return on investment and presence of 
Energy Efficiency Certificates (TEE), that is, those that certify achievement of energy savings for the energy 
end-user through implementing activities to increase energy efficiency. Among the scheduled activities, we 
note the following:  
 
-  installation of a new gas boiler at the Silandro plant: estimating production capacity of 3600 MWh/year, 
equivalent to about 600 h/year of operation at full load and a new boiler efficiency of 93,5%, it is 
reasonable to expect a savings of 5,4 toe/year 
-  installation of an economiser on a biomass boiler: based on the production capacity of 2018 
(approximately 3737 equivalent hours in the ex post configuration) and estimating a thermal recovery 
of 400 kWt, the savings potential is 146 toe/year for seven years 
-  refurbishment of the co-generator at the Merano plant 
 
There were 46 projects managed with EPCs in 2019 (21 in 2018), with a total annual savings of 4.661 toe, 
(tons of oil equivalent) and total prevented atmospheric emissions equal to 5.889 tCO2. In the same year, 
112.544 Energy Efficiency Certificates were issued to Alperia Bartucci SpA (218.387 in 2018) leading to 44.793 
toe (76.132 in 2018) saved by customers for whom Alperia Bartucci SpA, as ESCO, carried out the process to 
obtain the Energy Efficiency Certificates (TEE). 
 
 
Finally, Alperia Bartucci carries out research and innovation projects and also offers business customers the 
opportunity  to  perform  an  online  Web  Energy  Check,  comparing  their  performance  with  other  sector 
companies.  
 
 
Smart Region  
 
Established in 2018, the Smart Region business unit contributes to making South Tyrol a cutting-edge Smart 
Region. It operates in three areas:  
 
-  telecommunications with Alperia Fiber 
-  e-mobility with Alperia Smart Mobility (later becoming Neogy) 
-  energy efficiency with Alperia Bartucci  
 
  119 