Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
Corporate Structure {GRI 102-1; 102-2; 102-6}  
 
Alperia SpA is divided into five business units: Generation, Sales & Trading, Networks, Heat & Services and 
Smart Region, within which Alperia’s 32 subsidiaries and affiliates are incorporated (data referring to 31 
December 2019).  
 
After the 2018 acquisition of 60% of Bartucci SpA, one of the leading Italian operators for efficiency and 
integrated energy services, January 2019 saw the acquisition of 70% of the share capital of SUM (Servizi 
Unindustria Multiutilities SpA), a company also held by the regional Confindustria of Treviso, Padua, Venice 
and Rovigo. With a total turnover of over €130 million and supplying more than 1.600 companies, SUM is one 
of the leading energy operators for the corporate world in north eastern Italy. This strengthens Alperia's 
presence in a sector and region the group considers strategic.  
 
This is also true of the acquisition of Gruppo Green Power SpA in September 2019. The company based in 
Mirano, in the province of Venice, is active in the domestic energy-efficiency services sector and has over 
18.500 customers. Alperia made a public takeover bid for the company, which is listed on the AIM, the Italian 
stock exchange SME market, through which it acquired 86,53% of share capital. 
 
The company appointed to deal with electric mobility development, Alperia Smart Mobility Srl, saw Dolomiti 
Energia Holding SpA enter into its share capital with a 50% share, leading to the establishment of the joint 
venture Neogy Srl on 1 July 2019. The Board of Directors of the new company is made up of two members of 
Alperia and two from Dolomiti Energia. Alperia appointed Sergio Marchiori, director of the Smart Region 
business unit, as CEO.  
 
In 2019, Alperia  reorganised the group's commercial activities, which are now managed by Alperia Smart 
Services Srl. The demerger involved transferring the Risk & Energy Management business unit to Alperia 
Trading Srl, the transfer of the commercial activities of Alperia Ecoplus Srl and Alperia Fiber Srl to Alperia 
Smart Services Srl and the transfer of the Marketing business unit of Alperia SpA to Alperia Smart Services 
Srl. The final step of the reorganisation was formalised with effect from 1 July 2019. 
 
All 2019 operations were in line with the business plan, the objective of which is to transform Alperia from a 
traditional utility company to an all-round energy service provider.  
 
 
Value Chain {102-9}  
 
Since its first materiality survey (2017), Alperia has defined a sustainability strategy committed to a responsible 
and safe relationship with the South Tyrolean community, creating shared value in the medium and long term. 
This is a commitment that also involves suppliers. All the products and services we provide (from energy to 
gas, green mobility to energy efficiency and fibre optics) aim to ensure South Tyrol's future is innovative and 
sustainable. As part of this strategy, we make certain that our energy sources are predominantly natural and 
local, in particular:  
 
-  Water is drawn from the local province of South Tyrol, providing sustainable energy products and 
services in return. 
-  Biomass is mainly local or in any event from the Alpine arc and bordering areas. 
-  Palm oil (or CPO, crude palm oil) used by the subsidiary Biopower Sardegna Srl does not come from 
local suppliers but is sourced from ISCC EU-certified suppliers. This certification guarantees the 
sustainability of the entire supply chain, from cultivation to mill, storage to transport. The quality of 
palm oil is chemically analysed as it must reflect the chemical characteristics demanded by Alperia. 
Controls are carried out by third companies when the product is loaded onto the ship and before it is 
unloaded. 
-  Natural gas is purchased in Italy and is a mix between domestically extracted gas and that extracted 
abroad. Gas imports in Italy amount to over 90%1 (compared to an EU average of around 70%). 
Natural gas is brought to Italy through gas pipelines with 50% coming from Russia, followed by Algeria, 
Qatar, Libya, the Netherlands and Norway. Only a residual part is directly extracted in Italy; 
-  Machinery and technical equipment are purchased locally, in Italy or abroad, depending on necessity.  
-  Heat comes directly from the waste-to-energy plant in Bolzano. 
                                                
1 https://www.sr-m.it/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/SINTESI-Energy-Bruxelles-2019.pdf  
 
  13 