Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
A complaint tool is available on the company intranet page: myIdeas gives all employees the chance to submit 
suggestions for improving a service, a work process, occupational health and safety, or measures that 
contribute to greater motivation or stronger identification with the company. An additional Whistleblowing 
instrument of a different nature was introduced in line with the legislation. In 2018, new individual career 
development plans for employees were established; in 2019, the group instituted Talent and Pillars training 
programmes. The Talent Management project identified 30 talented employees (from the 63 who put 
themselves forward in 2019), giving them individual and group development opportunities, as well as career 
growth prospects, thereby helping to increase their motivation. Highlighting the skills and potential of talented 
employees and pillars is also useful for the succession plan that is currently being prepared by the HR 
Department, to better meet the challenge of key staff members retiring. In 2019, the 2020 executive MBO 
scheme was linked to the achievement of a sustainability goal for the first time. 
 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach  
The management approach is regularly evaluated, also through the family-and-work audit. To assess and 
verify the effectiveness of the management approach, we conduct a regular employee satisfaction survey in 
cooperation with research and the consulting firm Great Place to Work. This survey was conducted in 2017 
and repeated in 2019, highlighting a group-level Trust Index of 50%, with an increase of 9 percentage points 
compared to the previous result. In addition, feedback interviews continued in 2019 extended to all group 
employees. Corrections are made continuously throughout the year. Measures sent via intranet are reviewed 
and evaluated quarterly and, if necessary, approved and implemented. In 2018, the Whistleblowing hotline 
system was also introduced: through employee involvement, it aims to prevent any risk situations (fraud, 
crimes, unlawful or irregular conduct on the part of company individuals). No reports were recorded in 2019.  
 
 
Diversity & Equal Opportunity  
 
103-1 Explanation and definition  
In the 2019 materiality analysis, the topic was identified as essential, particularly by stakeholders. Direct impact 
for Alperia – with 1.017 employees, one of South Tyrol’s largest employers – mainly comes from the moderately 
high average age and the relatively low percentage of women due to the specificity of the technical sector in 
which Alperia operates.  
 
103-2 The management approach and its components  
Promoting diversity and equal opportunity is important for a successful business. This improves adaptability to 
changing market conditions and increases the attractiveness of employers. Alperia is committed to providing 
a non-discriminatory working environment and equal opportunities for all group employees, regardless of age, 
gender, linguistic origin or any disability. For Alperia this also implies the guarantee of equal pay and equal 
career opportunities for men and women. There are relatively few women in Alperia, due to the particular 
nature of its technical sector. This is why the company is trying to bring more and more women into technical 
professions. For the first time, in 2019, a woman was appointed chairperson of the Management Board and 
we achieved an equal gender balance in the same body. In terms of human resources management, particular 
attention is paid to the hiring of disabled staff and to compliance with the legal quotas. 
 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach  
The effectiveness of the management approach is evaluated regularly. A Welfare and Equal Opportunities 
Committee is planned, to be made up of four members appointed by trade union organisations and four by the 
company. Adjustments can be made continuously throughout the year.  
 
 
Occupational Health & Safety  
 
103-1 Explanation and definition  
This topic was identified as essential both in terms of impact and by stakeholders. There is certainly a direct 
impact for Alperia, whose 1.017 employees make it one of South Tyrol’s largest employers. 
 
103-2 The management approach and its components  
Alperia’s target is zero injuries. This is achieved through regular training of employees in health and safety. 
Alperia is committed to providing ever greater protection for employees and third-party companies in the area 
  128 