Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
of health, safety and the environment. Alperia has promoted and completed the implementation of certified 
integrated management systems (ISO 14001, ISO 45001, ISO 9001) for all the main group companies. 
 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach  
Occupational Health and Safety system compliance is checked regularly through first-party (internal) and third-
party (external, by an accredited body) audits. Effectiveness is monitored several times during the year using 
set indicators, with adjustments made where necessary. Scheduled periodic meetings are held annually for 
each certified company (management reviews and meetings, pursuant to Art. 35 of Legislative Decree 
81/2008) to share results and improvement programmes, the outcome of internal and external audits, the 
outcome of health surveillance and the progress of training programmes.  
 
 
DEVELOPMENT AND INNOVATION 
 
Innovation, Research & Development  
 
103-1 Explanation and definition  
This topic was identified as essential both in terms of impact and by stakeholders, especially owners and 
investors, as well as research bodies. Alperia promotes innovation in the energy sector through numerous 
research projects. The fact that it runs several hydroelectric and district heating plants, as well as the electricity 
grid, enables Alperia to test and apply the most innovative technologies. This has a direct and indirect impact 
on society, the environment and the economy.  
 
103-2 The management approach and its components  
Alperia places great emphasis on innovation and research in order to respond efficiently and effectively to the 
challenges of the energy market as well as to provide a modern energy supply and cutting-edge energy 
services in the future. The group collaborates with local and international partners on various projects aimed 
at promoting research and developing intelligent systems for efficient energy distribution and production (e.g. 
smart grids, smart cities, smart meters). Responsibilities are defined internally with the involvement of all 
business units. Expenses are reported annually in sustainability reporting.  
 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach  
The evaluation is carried out through regular project controls. In the future, effectiveness will be monitored 
annually on the basis of key data.  
 
 
Sustainable Products and Services  
 
103-1 Explanation and definition  
This topic was identified as essential, above all by stakeholders, in particular customers. Direct impact is mainly 
generated for private customers and Alperia business; indirect impact on the environment, meanwhile, is in 
relation to the development of sustainable products and services.  
 
103-2 The management approach and its components  
Alperia aims to develop its current product portfolio with a view to greater sustainability. The company’s 
objective is to offer customers sustainable, innovative products and services that are designed to achieve 
energy savings and more efficient use of energy. The goal should be to use sustainable resources to save 
energy and use it more efficiently. In doing so, Alperia and its customers will contribute significantly to the 
reduction of CO  emissions, as provided for in the Autonomous Province of Bolzano’s Climate Plan 2050. 
2
Responsibility lies with the respective business units. The share of revenues generated by sustainable 
products and services and investments to expand the range of sustainable products is calculated and 
published in the annual report.  
 
103-3 Evaluation of the management approach  
We have set ourselves the goal of increasing the revenue share derived from sustainable products and 
services. The achievement of goals and the implementation of agreed-upon measures is regularly monitored 
and evaluated as part of sustainability management. 
  129 