Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
Legislative 
Decree 
Material topics  Risk type  Risk   Mitigation/observations monitoring 
254/2016 
Area 
   Economic  Strategic/  RISK 1: STRATEGIC – Risk of  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 1 We want to 
development  financial   not including objectives aligned  be ready to face climate change, increasing the 
with climate change forecasts in  group's resilience. For this reason, we include 
Strategic Plans, increasing the  objectives directly related to this topic in our 
Alperia Group's resilience for  Strategic Plans and are diversifying the business by 
possible future scenarios.  increasingly focusing on sustainable products and 
  services. 
RISK 2: OPERATIONAL – Risk   
of failure to achieve the  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 2 To contribute 
strategic objectives of  to the creation of a South Tyrolean Smart Region, 
infrastructure evolution and  we collaborate with important research bodies to 
development of the Smart  develop new smart grid solutions. 
Region due to inadequate   
management of partnerships for  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 3 We want to 
innovation and technological  effectively communicate with stakeholders and 
development  customers so as to avoid any type of unfavourable 
  perception related to sustainability issues.  
RISK 3: OPERATIONAL – Risk   
of not creating added value for  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 4 We want to 
all stakeholders and  ensure the well-being of the riparian municipalities. 
communicating environmental  For this reason, we build public works to support 
and social performance in an  the environment, put in place dedicated projects, 
ineffective way with a  directly involve the riparian municipality 
consequent unfavourable  communities and respect all the obligations laid 
consumer, investor and other  down by provincial legislation.  
stakeholder perception on   
sustainability issues  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 5 We want to 
  create €1.2 billion of total added value for South 
RISK 4: OPERATIONAL – Risk  Tyrol over a period of five years. For this reason, 
of failure to implement both the  we take strategic action to support the local 
environmental obligations of the  economy with taxes, job creation and social 
concession contract and  commitment. 
spending commitments with 
potential impact on the failure to 
improve the surrounding 
environment and the degree of 
satisfaction of riparian 
municipality communities. 
 
RISK 5 FINANCIAL – Risk of 
failure to create added value for 
South Tyrol in the areas 
envisaged by the corporate 
strategy, such as: jobs, local 
taxes and social commitment 
   Marketing and  Strategic/  RISK 1 STRATEGIC - Risk of  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 1 We are 
transparent  operational  lack of/inadequate information  committed to implementing transparent, up-to-date 
communicatio transparency and  and stakeholder-oriented marketing and internal 
n  communication that is not  communication. We provide consistent information 
stakeholder-oriented (e.g.  through our various media channels (e.g. energy 
communication of the group's  points, call centres) and in 2019, we began to 
environmental and social  introduce CRM or Customer Relationship 
performance, extended website  Management, focusing on lead management. 
content, round tables,   
stakeholder surveys) with a  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 2 We want to 
possible impact on customer  make our marketing and communication initiatives 
satisfaction/increased  socially and economically sustainable. For this 
complaints, customer loss, non- reason, all our events are certified Green Events. 
compliance with provisions and    
codes of conduct  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 3 We want 
  increasing numbers of customers to take up 
RISK 2 STRATEGIC - Risk of  paperless billing. We are promoting this choice 
procuring unsustainable  through consumer behaviour activities to stimulate 
advertising material  the take-up of green products. 
 
RISK 3 OPERATIONAL - Risk 
of failure/non-definition of 
motivational measures for 
customers to increase the 
number of customers receiving 
paperless bills 
  131 