Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
Legislative 
Decree 
Material topics  Risk type  Risk   Mitigation/observations monitoring 
254/2016 
Area 
   Customer  Operational  RISK 1: OPERATIONAL - Risk  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 1 To limit the 
satisfaction  of inadequate management, in  risk of inefficient management and to offer our 
terms of speed and efficiency,  customers a rapid and solution-oriented service, we 
of customer/user service and  use numerous communication tools such as a 
complaints with possible impact  bilingual freephone number which is backed up by 
on customer satisfaction and  an external call centre to cope with peaks in 
loss.  requests. This is how we meet all the service SLAs.  
   Cyber Security  Compliance/  RISK 1: COMPLIANCE – Risk  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 1 We want to 
operational  of non-compliance with privacy  guarantee compliance with privacy regulations, 
law provisions in relation to the  which is why we continuously monitor security 
protection of sensitive data.  systems, updating them on an ongoing basis to 
  ensure they are the most up to date and we have 
RISK 2: OPERATIONAL – Risk  implemented all measures envisaged by the GDPR. 
of security incidents and failure   
to manage information, as well  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 2 We want to 
as failure to protect sensitive  guarantee that all data is protected from security 
data and intellectual property  incidents and guarantee Business Continuity in 
due to the infrastructure  case of IT incidents (e.g. server failures, power 
inadequacy with possible data  outages). For this reason, we use efficient 
loss or disclosure; risk of  protection systems against internal and external 
possible OTT infrastructure  attacks and incursions. We also renewed our ISO 
malfunctions with possible  27001 certification and developed business 
impact on the service delivery  continuity plans (INS-212.01 Business Continuity – 
continuity due to the  Disaster Recovery IT). 
failure/inadequate development 
of IT infrastructure and 
preparation of emergency 
plans. 
   Innovation,  Strategic/  RISK 1: STRATEGIC &  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 1 We want to 
Research and  operational  OPERATIONAL – Risk of not  contribute actively to South Tyrol's energy future 
Development  identifying/planning innovation  and develop new technology solutions with 
projects and R&D activities, as  innovative research projects. We are preparing 
well as inadequate channelling  guidelines on innovation at group level to support 
of resources to the  the activities of the Innovation Board and we are 
aforementioned  carrying out the projects selected in 2018. After the 
projects/activities with potential  previous year's successful event, we launched the 
impact on the development of  second edition of Alperia Startup Factory. 
new business opportunities. 
   Sustainable  Strategic/  RISK 1: STRATEGIC – Risk of  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 1 We want to 
energy  operational  failure/inadequate development  develop new business activities in line with the 
products and  of new energy concepts (e.g.  100% Green DNA concept, promote the take-up 
services  products and services) with  and purchase of green products and increase the 
  potential impact on the strategic  sales share of sustainable products and services. 
  objectives to make the business  For this reason, we are examining consumer 
  100% green.   behaviour programmes aimed at stimulating the 
    purchase of green products. 
  RISK 2: OPERATIONAL – Risk   
  of failure/inadequate  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 2 We want to 
  management and development  promote electromobility and the charging 
  of electromobility services and  infrastructure in South Tyrol. To achieve this, we 
    support infrastructures.  are making Alperia an e-mobility service provider 
and installing charging infrastructures in the area. 
  132 