Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
Legislative 
Decree 
Material topics  Risk type  Risk   Mitigation/observations monitoring 
254/2016 
Area 
Environme Water  Strategic/  RISK 1: STRATEGIC – Risk of  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 1 We invest in 
ntal  compliance/  failure to manage climate  the safety and resilience of our plants to make sure 
Aspects  operational  change and the growth of  we are prepared for the possible impact of climate 
weather phenomena (e.g.  change. Furthermore, we promote research and 
floods, droughts) with impact on  development activities (for example, with the 
the water cycle and reservoirs  Alperia Startup Factory project and in collaborations 
with related implications for  with universities and innovative companies across 
plant productivity  the world) to improve the safety of our 
  infrastructure. 
RISK 2– COMPLIANCE – Risk   
of non-compliance with  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 2 We want to 
regulatory provisions  guarantee the highest level of compliance with 
  environmental legislation. For this reason, we 
RISK 3 OPERATIONAL – Risk  comply with all provisions and seek all the 
of possible contamination from  necessary authorisations from the relevant bodies. 
water from open cycle cooling  We comply with regulatory provisions on Minimum 
systems  Vital Flow so as not to cause damage to local flora 
  and fauna. We also have ISO 45001, 14001, 9001 
RISK 4 OPERATIONAL – Risk  certification and EMAS registration. 
of not implementing   
compensation measures (e.g.  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 3 We want to 
fish ladders, re- minimise the environmental impact of the water our 
naturalisation/restoration of the  plants return to rivers. For this reason, we are 
original landscape when plants  gradually replacing open cycle systems with closed 
are decommissioned) and loss  cycle systems.  
of biodiversity.    
MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 4 We actively 
protect the environment as well as the biological 
diversity of waterways. We do this by using funding 
provided by the environmental fund to implement 
various morphological improvement measures for 
waterways affected by hydroelectric shunts. 
Furthermore, to define the most suitable 
compensation measures, we organise working 
groups involving various stakeholders. 
    Emissions  Operational  RISK 1: OPERATIONAL – Risk  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 1 - We support 
of failing to optimise eco- the Province of Bolzano’s 2050 Climate Plan by  
sustainable technology and  reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. To this 
define monitoring instruments  end, we have begun reporting activities related to 
for greenhouse gas emissions  environmental KPIs for the purposes of the 
(e.g. establishment of a group  Sustainability Report to monitor group emissions 
level report)   and carbon intensity. 
   
RISK 2: OPERATIONAL – Risk  MITIGATION /CONTROL ACTION 2 – We want to 
of non-compliance with mobility  reduce emissions related to mobility, making 50% 
plans developed for the  of the fleet of potentially electric vehicles green in 
company vehicle fleet in  three years. We already have over 100 electric or 
relation to reducing emissions  hybrid vehicles. 
   
RISK 3: OPERATIONAL – Risk  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 3 – We want to 
of non-compliance with  minimise the pollution caused by our plants, which 
activities to reduce pollution  is why we used part of the proceeds of the Green 
generated by the group's plants  Bond to finance the modernisation of the 
(e.g. air emissions, discharges  hydroelectric plants and the related distribution 
into water, waste, etc.)  network. 
   Energy  Operational  RISK 1 OPERATIONAL – Risk  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 1 – We want to 
consumption  of inadequate monitoring of  reduce energy consumption in buildings and plants 
energy consumption and  through targeted energy efficiency initiatives. We 
energy efficiency levels of  also do this through Alperia Bartucci SpA, the 
buildings and systems with  ESCo that oversees the implementation of energy 
potential impact on the design  efficiency projects and innovative energy services, 
of energy efficiency measures  in line with the efficiency objectives of the group's 
Strategic Plan. Our objective is to use, wherever 
possible, renewable energy sources to run our 
plants and buildings. 
  133 