Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
Legislative 
Decree 
Material topics  Risk type  Risk   Mitigation/observations monitoring 
254/2016 
Area 
   Supplier  Strategic/  RISK 1: STRATEGIC – Risk of  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 1 – To help 
management  operational  failure to identify specific  create local value and select suppliers of raw 
criteria/requirements to ensure  materials suitable for our business, we strategically 
corporate purchases are made  set ourselves the objective of making our 
as locally and sustainably as  purchases as locally and sustainably as possible 
possible and risk of inadequate  from an ecological and social perspective. All of our 
choice and selection of  new suppliers are screened according to 
suppliers.  environmental and social criteria. To achieve the 
  target objectives that we have set ourselves for the 
RISK 2: OPERATIONAL – Risk  selection of new suppliers on the basis of social 
of potential non-ethical conduct  and environmental requirements, we have adopted 
by suppliers.  the BravoSolution system, assessing sustainability 
criteria by goods category (high, medium, low 
criticality). 
 
MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 2 – To avoid 
the risk of a lack of transparency in the supplier 
selection process, in particular in relation to 
active/passive corruption issues, we are committed 
to ensuring responsible supply chain management 
by checking suppliers meet the requirements of 
integrity, professionalism, technical standards and 
good reputation. Furthermore, to avoid the risk of 
non-ethical conduct on the part of suppliers, 
employees, customers and other stakeholders, a 
respect for human rights clause is included in the 
group’s general terms and conditions for 
contracting. 
   
   Asset integrity  Operational  RISK 1: OPERATIONAL – Risk  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 1 – We want to 
of failure to manage inspection  guarantee the maximum safety of our infrastructure, 
and maintenance activities for  dams and hydraulic works, to protect personnel, the 
dams and other hydraulic works  population and the surrounding area. For this 
(e.g. pipelines, tunnels etc.) to  reason, we have introduced an accurate internal 
guarantee their structural  control system, developed constant monitoring and 
integrity and avoid potential  maintenance activities in compliance with legal 
total or partial collapses, which  obligations and managed penstocks in compliance 
have the potential to impact on  with regulatory obligations. We also want to ensure 
the surrounding environment  the resilience of our works and plants even in the 
and result in penalties from the  event of flooding. For this reason, we have 
authorities.  developed immediate action plans and signed a 
  memorandum of understanding with the Civil 
RISK 2: OPERATIONAL – Risk  Protection Agency of the Autonomous Province of 
of damage to local communities  Bolzano for the management of emergencies 
due to accidents at plants in  including flooding.  
locations potentially sensitive to   
natural disasters or terrorist  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 2 – We want to 
attacks.  ensure business continuity of all IT systems and 
plants and minimise risks associated with sensitive 
terrorism targets (e.g. cyber security and sensitive 
locations). To this end, we have developed a 
special business continuity and disaster recovery 
plan. 
   
Personnel  Occupational  Compliance  RISK 1: COMPLIANCE – Risk  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 1 - We want to 
manageme health and  of failure to achieve  ensure the highest level of safety in the workplace 
nt  safety  adequate/maximum levels of  for our employees and external staff (external 
occupational health and safety  companies). For this reason, we are installing 30 
for employees and  semi-automatic defibrillators in our workplaces from 
collaborators (external  2020. We have numerous other tools including a 
companies), in relation to  monthly HSE report on health and safety and 
injuries, accidents and  environment, online information tips on the issue of 
occupational diseases with  safety, dedicated training for each group company, 
potential non-compliance with  partnership with the Civil Protection department and 
the legislation on the protection  ISO 14001, ISO 45001, ISO 9001 and ISO 27001 
of occupational health and  certification, revised and renewed every year. We 
safety in workplaces  have also introduced an accident, near miss and 
environmental incident information collection and 
reporting system. External companies are also 
assessed on the basis of safety-related criteria. 
  
  134 