Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
Legislative 
Decree 
Material topics  Risk type  Risk   Mitigation/observations monitoring 
254/2016 
Area 
   Employee  Operational  RISK 1: OPERATIONAL – Risk  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 1 – We have 
development  of inadequate implementation  created individual career development plans for our 
of staff training plans for the  employees and organise specific internal training/e-
development of specific skills  learning courses according to needs (e.g. 
(e.g. development plans for  workplace safety, change management, cyber 
management, high potential  security, etc.).  
programme, digital skills, e-  
learning courses)  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 2 – We want to 
  ensure the presence of and compliance with group-
RISK 2: OPERATIONAL – Risk  wide policies and procedures for the recruitment, 
of inadequate group level  management and development of staff. To achieve 
human resources policies and  this, we apply the measures required by the Model 
procedures with potential  pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/01 (segregation 
impact on recruitment,  of duties, powers of attorney and proxies, 
management and development  traceability, objectives definition and selection, 
  performance measurement, etc.). 
RISK 3: OPERATIONAL – Risk   
of non-compliance in relation to  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 3 – We want to 
staff training activities ensuring  ensure compliance with regulatory obligations 
compliance with specific  relating to staff training, updating training plans in 
regulatory requirements (e.g.  accordance with the quality system and monitoring 
SSL, Legislative Decree  their actual performance in the area of compliance 
231/01)  (e.g. SSL, Legislative Decree 231/01). 
   
RISK 4: OPERATIONAL – Risk  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 4 – We want to 
of employee dissatisfaction  increase our employees' satisfaction. For this 
leading to potential inefficiency  reason, we carry out periodic surveys, including in 
in the management of company  consultation with external bodies (e.g. Great Place 
activities  to Work® Institute Italia). The survey carried out in 
  2019 showed a 50% satisfaction rate and therefore 
RISK 5: OPERATIONAL - Risk  an increase of 9 points compared to the survey 
of inadequate definition of  carried out in 2016. 
retention measures and new   
recruitment planning to replace  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 5 – We want to 
retiring key staff with a potential  create a stable and efficient company that has long-
impact from loss of know-how,  term economic success and is capable of 
expertise and highly specialised  consistently addressing the retirement plans of its 
technical operators  key staff. To do this we have taken the following 
  measures: 
RISK 6: OPERATIONAL – Risk  - we carry out promotional activities at the main 
of conflicting relationships  schools and universities in the area to attract young 
between parties with the  talent, in particular in the technical professions;  
consequent impossibility of  - we launched the Talent project which identifies 
developing effective personnel  employees with growth potential among internal 
policies  staff; 
  - we continue to develop career development plans 
RISK 7: OPERATIONAL – Risk  for Pillar employees who want to get involved and 
of lack of motivational systems  who have the skills Alperia needs. 
(e.g. team building) for   
employees, with potential  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 6 – We 
inefficiencies in the  establish relationships with employees and their 
management of company  respective unions based on dialogue, limiting 
activities due to the lack of  conflict and generating development opportunities 
dissemination of a  in the mutual interest of all parties. 
communication culture to   
ensure performance feedback  MITIGATION / CONTROL ACTION 7 – We want to 
and internal awareness through  establish a culture of transparent communication to 
targeted workshops  avoid potential inefficiencies in the management of 
company activities. We do this with motivational 
and team-building activities, for which we have 
allocated a budget of €50/year per person, and with 
training and career development activities.  
  135 