Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
 
Risk management 
   
Risk  Management Approach 
 
Risk of failure to monitor processes and  We want to minimise the phenomenon of active and passive corruption 
activities with a risk of corruption between  between private individuals and conflicts of interest in relationships with the 
private individuals and in relationships  Public Administration. For this reason, we adopted the Organisation 
with the Public Administration, as well as  Management and Control Model, pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/01 
relationships with related parties  (active corruption), implemented a Whistleblowing procedure and follow a 
rigorous code of ethics. 
 
The Organisation, Management and Control Model, pursuant to Legislative Decree 231  
 
The Organisation, Management and Control Model required by Legislative Decree 231/01 (231 Model) is the 
set of organisational rules and procedures intended to prevent the committing of the offences governed by 
Legislative Decree 231/01. Adopting this model is an act of social responsibility on the part of the company. 
Its aim is to affirm and spread a corporate culture based on the legality and control of all decision-making and 
operational activities, with full awareness of the risks deriving from the commission of offences.  
 
The parent company Alperia SpA approved the updated full version of its 231 Model at the end of 2018. In 
2019, following the numerous organisational and corporate changes that took place within the group, the 231 
organisation charts and models of many of its companies were revised. On 1 January 2019, the demerger of 
Alperia Energy Srl took effect, transferring the Risk & Energy Management business branch to Alperia Trading 
Srl., which had been established in September 2018. Alperia Trading markets the group's energy production 
and manages energy trading. It has therefore been equipped with its own 231 model and Supervisory Body, 
which is responsible for supervising the effectiveness, compliance and updating of the 231 model. This 
Supervisory Board deals with all the internal functions of the company and all recipients of the 231 Model are 
required to inform it (anonymously) of any actual or potential offence covered by Legislative Decree 231/01 
and/or of any infringements mentioned in the 231 Model.  
 
Between 22 and 28 November 2019, the 231 models of Alperia Bartucci SpA, Alperia Ecoplus Srl, Biopower 
Sardegna Srl and Alperia Smart Services Srl were approved. Alperia Bartucci SpA, Alperia Trading Srl, Edyna 
Srl and Gruppo Green Power SpA have established their own SBs, while in Alperia Smart Services Srl, 
Biopower Sardegna Srl and Alperia Ecoplus Srl these tasks continue to be carried out by the previously 
appointed  SBs.  All  the  models  are  available  in  Italian  and  German  on  the  group's  website 
(www.alperiagroup.eu) and on the intranet. To increase employee awareness on the value of the 231 Model, 
e-learning training courses specific to each company area have been organised. In 2019, no infringements of 
the 231 Model were detected, nor any significant events with respect to Legislative Decree 231/01. 
 
The Alperia SpA 231 Model and those of the individual companies are the main instruments for preventing 
public and private corruption, fraud against the state and public administration or offences of extortion and 
influence peddling. These instruments are supported by further measures such as the Code of Ethics, the 
Disciplinary Code and the Golden Rules.  
 
Code of Ethics  
 
Legal compliance and the fight against corruption are established in the Alperia Code of Ethics and are 
embodied in the practices and operating methods that are defined and disseminated through our procedures.  
The Code of Ethics is an integral part of the Organisation, Management and Control Model pursuant to 
Legislative Decree 231/2001, defining the values, principles and rules that guide the conduct and activities of 
the group. These provisions are addressed, without exception, to the directors and employees of the group 
companies. They equally apply to all those who collaborate with Alperia and its companies in various 
capacities, who are also required to conduct themselves in line with these principles, without prejudice to 
respect for religious, cultural and social practices.  
 
The provisions contained in the Code of Ethics integrate the conduct with which internal personnel are required 
to comply, in accordance with the rules of due diligence to which employees are required to adhere, governed 
  15 