Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
by the regulations on employment relationships. The Code of Ethics is binding for the conduct of all Alperia 
personnel and for all those who, for whatever reason and regardless of the type of contractual relationship, 
contribute to the achievement of the company’s aims and objectives. Under no circumstances may pursuit of 
Alperia’s interests justify behaviour that is contrary to the Code of Ethics or existing laws.  
 
The body responsible for monitoring the application of the Code of Ethics is the Supervisory Body of Alperia 
Spa, established in accordance with the 231/2001 model and related regulations. It coordinates the proper 
implementation and assessment of the principles contained in the Code of Ethics with the Supervisory Bodies 
of each company and the relevant company functions. The Code of Ethics is available on the company’s 
intranet and on the Alperia corporate website (www alperiagroup.eu).  
 
Disciplinary Code and Golden Rules  
 
The objective of the Disciplinary Code is to identify the applicable disciplinary measures for misdemeanours 
committed by Alperia employees. Employees may not take advantage of their position to take on paid or unpaid 
work (during or outside office hours) that competes with or conflicts with the company's business, especially 
for profit, nor may they receive gifts or compensation of any kind. In addition, to strengthen the group's values 
and vision, 10 Golden Rules have been drawn up. They are posted in each company workplace, allowing for 
a positive and equality-based working environment, in which every employee can make a contribution 
according to their abilities and with a sense of responsibility. Both documents are available in German and 
Italian on the group's intranet page. 
 
 
Whistleblowing  
 
The Whistleblowing procedure, introduced in 2018, gives employees the opportunity to promptly report any 
risk situations (fraud, crimes and unlawful or irregular conduct on the part of individuals inside the company). 
This procedure is mandatory for all companies equipped with 231 Organisational Model. It was therefore also 
implemented by Alperia, which set up the cloud e-Whistle platform through which confidential reports may be 
made. The Supervisory Body did not receive any reports via this channel in 2019.  
 
 
The Gruppo Green Power case 
 
In 2019, Alperia acquired a majority stake in Gruppo Green Power SpA, the parent company of a group 
involved in marketing services and products for domestic and SME energy efficiency. Following a television 
broadcast by Canale 5 questioning the correctness of the work of GGP group companies, Alperia immediately 
took action, requesting a leading auditing company to carry out a specific audit prior to the acquisition. At the 
end of the audit, the GGP group rectified the critical issues. In recent months, Alperia has redefined some 
management and contractual aspects of the commercial activities of GGP group companies and is now starting 
to redefine its business plan, balancing commercial needs with the principles of correctness and transparency 
that have always characterised Alperia's activities. 
 
 
The PVB Power Bulgaria case  
 
In press conferences in Sofia and Bolzano, a Bulgarian businessman alleged that the PVB Power Bulgaria 
company and its subsidiary Vez Svoghe, owner of five hydroelectric plants in Bulgaria, had been impacted 
detrimentally in the past by irregular activities carried out by the then Executive Director. 
 
Alperia, Dolomiti Energia Holding and Finest, shareholders alongside relative majority shareholder PVB Power 
Srl of PVB Power Bulgaria, contested attempts by the aforementioned Bulgarian businessman, who had just 
become a minority shareholder in PVB Power Srl, to suggest they may have been involved in alleged illegal 
or irregular activities within PVB Power Bulgaria. Moreover, the three companies have always stressed that 
even if irregularities were uncovered in the Bulgarian company, they themselves would actually be injured 
parties. 
 
As soon as they became aware of these alleged irregularities, the three companies commissioned an external 
risk-management company to carry out an investigation into the matter.  
 
  16 