Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
It should be noted that a sales procedure for the three companies' shares in PVB Power Bulgaria is in progress 
and the aforementioned businessman has expressed a willingness to acquire them. His offer was considered 
completely inappropriate and thus has not been accepted; the three companies deemed it necessary to 
proceed with a selection procedure amongst other possible buyers.  
 
 
Sustainability Governance  
 
Alperia has adopted a sustainability plan which runs from 2017 to 2021, aiming to make a significant 
contribution to the sustainable development of the group and the region in which it operates. The plan indicates 
the environmental, social and economic sustainability objectives to be achieved. From 2018 forward, these 
objectives have been monitored through the Sustainability Report, a document approved by the Management 
Board and Supervisory Board.  
 
In 2019, a new sustainability policy was defined and approved by the General Manager, with the purpose of 
approaching sustainability issues in a more comprehensive l way, not limited solely to the HSE (Health, Safety, 
Environment) field. In 2020, this document will be followed by the definition of a CSR Management Procedure; 
sustainability will thus become a central driver of the group's new business plan. In doing this, we intend to 
clearly define to which of the UN's Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Alperia can contribute, by making 
suitable choices and implementing measures in line with these goals.  
 
It is fundamental for Alperia that all employees are involved in this process. For this reason – after having 
already linked the employees' year-end bonus to the achievement of sustainability objectives in 2018 – this 
mechanism was extended to senior management in 2019, with at least one sustainability objective being 
included in the Management by Objectives (MBO) scheme. The measure will become operational from 2020, 
with the aim of applying it to long-term management objectives as well.  
 
Management of all Corporate Social Responsibility activities is carried out by CSR Management within the 
Brand & Communication department. It has a range of responsibilities including preparing a sustainability plan 
and report, assisting technical services in the implementation of the projects, submitting recommendations 
relating to actions to be developed with the governance bodies, auditing the annual non-financial reporting and 
collaborating  with  the  CSR  Steering  Committee.  This  body  is  essentially  an  interface  between  group 
employees and CSR Management; it met once in 2019. It is responsible for providing information on current 
activities, assessing CSR performance, making proposals for improvements, monitoring objectives and 
measures to be achieved and encouraging greater awareness of sustainability issues. The CSR Steering 
Committee is made up of CSR Management and service managers or collaborators of the Human Resources, 
HSE,  Procurement,  Enterprise  Risk,  Corporate  Strategy,  Engineering,  Controlling,  Accounting,  IT, 
Communications, Marketing, Production, Sales & Trading, Heat & Services and Smart Region sectors. 
 
 
Sustainability Policy  
 
Sustainability is an integral part of Alperia's vision and strategy, as well as a key aspect in all our activities. 
Our new sustainability policy is based on this principle; through it, we have committed ourselves to taking 
action in five strategic areas:  
 
-  Community: We create added value on a local level in terms of employment, duties and taxes, supply 
agreements and social engagement. Corporate governance systems such as codes of conduct, 
proactive complaint management and tools for compliance and risk management ensure transparency 
and prevent reputational and operational risks. The utmost importance is placed on the technical safety 
and stability of plants, with the main focus always on the reliability and availability of the energy supply. 
Alperia actively promotes the sustainability of the entire supply chain by defining minimum ecological 
and social requirements for tenders as well as for the process of selecting, evaluating and auditing 
suppliers. Primary energy sources are identified locally, where possible, and are predominantly 
renewable. 
 
-  Development and Innovation: We work on developing new technology to offer cutting-edge and 
competitive  energy  products  and  services  with  the  lowest  possible  environmental  impact  that 
guarantee a reliable and sustainable supply. The ultimate goal is to make the company's operations 
100% green. 
 
  17 