Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
The impact of these changes can already be seen. Extreme weather events such as heatwaves, droughts and 
floods are becoming increasingly frequent, with repercussions for natural ecosystems, human health and water 
resources. In particular, it is estimated that in the five-year period from 2015 to 20193:  
 
-  temperatures exceeded those of the pre-industrial era (1850–1900) by 1,1°C, making the last 5 years 
the warmest on record 
-  over the last four winters, the Arctic ice cap has declined at the fastest rate ever and there has been 
the highest loss of glaciers since records began 
-  sea levels have risen further, and sea water is becoming increasingly acidic 
-  the levels of two of the main climate-changing gases, methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) have 
reached new peaks 
-  in 2018, global carbon-dioxide emissions increased by 2% (+63% compared to 1990); this continues 
in 2019 
 
We are therefore at a point of no return, both for the environment and for entire economic sectors such as 
forestry, agriculture, tourism and construction, as well as for human health itself. An awareness of the global 
risks of the current development model's unsustainability clearly emerged from the World Economic Forum 
2020 Global Risks Report4, presented in January 2020. According to the survey of over 750 experts and 
decision makers in various global economy sectors on the perception of risks at an international level, the 
following risks took first, second and third place:  
 
-  extreme weather events 
-  failure to mitigate and adapt to climate change  
-  major natural disasters 
 
Following in fourth and fifth place:  
 
-  the loss of biodiversity 
-  environmental damage caused by humans 
 
Therefore, for the first time in the report's history, all five major global risks in terms of probability related to the 
environment. Indeed, if the increase in temperatures is not kept below 1,5°C there will be a real global 
emergency leading to the extinction of entire animal and plant species, an increase in natural disasters with 
loss of life, serious health problems overwhelming national health systems, especially for the poorest and most 
vulnerable countries, flooding of entire low-altitude areas due to the progressive glacier melting, a decreasing 
crop yield and ever-increasing water scarcity, increasing migration and international geopolitical tensions.  
 
This systemic collapse can only be avoided if man-made carbon dioxide emissions decrease by 50% by 2030 
compared to 2010, reaching zero by 2050. The 2020 Global Risks Report calls for the largest world powers to 
work together with determination to face the most deep-rooted risks with the greatest impact. The current data 
is not comforting. Energy demand continues to grow and is still largely met by fossil fuels. Global energy 
demand increased by 2,3% in 2018, the highest rate in the last ten years. Driven by population growth, income 
increase and urbanisation, it is expected to increase by more than 25% by 2040. There is therefore an obvious 
contradiction between calls for sustainability and the drive, in particular in emerging markets, to stimulate 
economic growth through investment in high-carbon projects. Suffice to say that coal-fired power plants built 
in Asia in the last decade accounted for almost a third of the total increase in CO  emissions in 2018.  
2
 
Therefore, the next ten years will be crucial. According to the Emission Gap Report published on 26 November 
2019 by the United Nations, CO  emissions must decrease by 7,6% per year between now and 2030 to contain 
2
global warming within 1,5°C5. This reduction must be accompanied by an investment of $460 billion a year in 
clean energy.  
 
The fight against climate change has taken on a real urgency, with awareness increasing among people of all 
ages, genders and social backgrounds. This has been demonstrated by the Fridays for Future movement 
launched by the young Swede Greta Thunberg, calling for urgent action on climate issues. Global awareness 
leading to the implementation of adequate sustainability policies is needed to stop climate change. For this 
reason, in January 2020, Europe approved the Green Deal to invest €1.000 billion in the green economy to 
achieve specific targets, including the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030 and climate 
                                                
3 https://www.agi.it/estero/verita_cambiamenti_climatici-6242444/news/2019-09-25/  
4 https://www.weforum.org/reports/the-global-risks-report-2020  
5 https://www.unenvironment.org/resources/emissions-gap-report-2019  
  22 