Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
increasingly transparent, updated, stakeholder oriented and sustainable from a social and 
economic standpoint. 
-  Target 12.7: promote public procurement practices that are sustainable in accordance with 
national policies and priorities → We want to make our procurement as local,  environmentally 
sound and socially sustainable as possible. Our supplier selection process ensures that all our 
suppliers  maintain  sustainability  standards  and  that  purchased  products  also  meet  these 
standards. 
SDG 13 – Climate action:  
-  Targets 13.1, 13.2, 13.3: Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related 
hazards and natural disasters in all countries // Target 13.2: Integrate climate change 
measures into national policies, strategies, and planning // Target 13.3: Improve education, 
awareness raising and human and institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, 
adaptation, impact reduction, and early warning → We want to support the Autonomous 
Province of Bolzano Climate Plan 2050 and reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. For this 
reason, we assess the risks and opportunities of climate change (water scarcity, storms, 
regulation, etc.). We are also investing in the production and use of products with lower 
greenhouse gas emissions and encouraging the development of internal and external e-mobility. 
We  are  working  hard  to  ensure  that  citizens  and  our  stakeholders  are  more  aware  of 
environmental issues. 
SDG 15 – Life on land:  
-  Targets  15.1,  15.4,  15.5,  15.6:  By  2020,  ensure  the  conservation,  restoration  and 
sustainable use of terrestrial and inland freshwater ecosystems and their services, in 
particular forests, wetlands, mountains and drylands, in line with obligations under 
international agreements // Target 15.4: By 2030, ensure the conservation of mountain 
ecosystems, including their biodiversity, in order to enhance their capacity to provide 
benefits essential for sustainable development // Target 15.5: Take urgent and significant 
action to reduce the degradation of natural habitats, halt the loss of biodiversity and, by 
2020, protect and prevent the extinction of threatened species // Target 15.6: Ensure fair 
and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from the utilisation of genetic resources, and 
promote appropriate access to genetic resources → We strive to protect the environment and 
its biodiversity in compliance with the compensation measures laid down by the Autonomous 
Province of Bolzano. For this reason, we carry out various activities to consolidate fish stocks, 
build ladders for fish in intake works, improve water courses and oversee the monitoring and 
management of Minimum Vital Flow. In addition, we have begun to implement measures to 
promote sustainable water use in collaboration with local farmers and municipalities.  
 
 
 
Management of risks and opportunities  
 
Since it began activity in 2016, Alperia has been developing a business risk management system, with the aim 
of making it an essential, systematic component of decision-making processes.  
 
There are two main risks for the group: volatility in energy prices, an issue that led to the development of an 
ad hoc hedging system, and the volatility of production which, being mostly linked to hydroelectric power, is 
affected by weather and rainfall trends. Alongside these are regulatory risks, given that the energy sector in 
Italy is heavily regulated. All these risks require constant monitoring by the Enterprise Risk Management 
function and others. 
  26 