Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
Strategic
ESG 
Compliance risks  Financial
types
Operational
 
 
 
*ESG = Environmental, Social, Governance 
 
 
 
RISK TYPE 
 
STRATEGIC  
Risks connected to high-level corporate strategies that top management must try to anticipate and 
govern: business changes, context changes, business and corporate development, sustainability plans 
 
OPERATIONAL  
Risks connected to the energy sector, business operations, organisational structure, IT systems and 
control and reporting processes 
 
COMPLIANCE  
Risks connected to a failure to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to the business  
 
FINANCIAL  
Risks connected to the group’s financial management 
 
 
 
In 2019, in addition to measures to detect financial and plant risks, Alperia developed a project to assess the 
group’s non-financial risks (with the exception of reputational risks). The process led the group to identify 58 
risks and establish a corresponding framework. Non-financial risks (ESG) were assessed in relation to the 
action  areas  set  forth  in  the  Sustainability  Plan  (Employees,  Green  Mission,  Community,  Customers, 
Development and Innovation) and the identified objectives. Each risk was classified by type (Compliance, 
Operational, Strategic) and assessed by impact (insignificant, minor, moderate, serious, critical) and by 
probability of occurrence (remote, unlikely, moderately probable, probable, highly probable). We then went on 
to identify the inherent risk (i.e. without mitigation) and residual risk level (i.e. the level of risk remaining after 
the introduction of measures to reduce the impact and probability of the event occurring). Monitoring adequacy 
was assessed for each inherent risk as low, medium, medium-high or high. 
 
The assessment revealed that 47 out of 58 risks could be classified as moderately probable or highly probable, 
with an impact between moderate and critical. Half of these risks were classified as "significant." These risks 
had already been identified and included in the 2017–2021 Sustainability Plan; specific management and 
containment measures had therefore already been envisaged. With the introduction of measures adopted by 
the group, most of the inherent high or significant risks have been reduced to medium or low relative risks. 
Following the analysis carried out, there are three remaining significant risks for Alperia: 
  27 