Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
 
Alperia Outreach {GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44}  
 
We want to contribute significantly to the growth of the province in which we operate. To do this, we reach out 
to all our stakeholders, including shareholders and investors, customers, employees, the riparian municipalities 
and other municipalities in whose region our plants are located, suppliers, research institutes and interest 
groups, such as environmental, business and fishing associations, trade unions and consumer associations. 
We engage with them through different channels and on numerous topics, from environmental plans to 
innovation, working together to create a sustainable future for Alperia and the whole of South Tyrol. 
 
-  Customers: Between 2020 and 2024, Alperia’s energy distribution company, Edyna, will replace the 
meters of its more than 200.000 customers with new generation Smart Meters. To prepare customers 
for this change, Alperia organised an event at the via Lungo Isarco Sinistro headquarters in Bolzano. 
During the evening, the advantages, features and the progressive replacement plan for Smart Meters 
were presented. Further communication activities are planned for 2020. The two-year user satisfaction 
survey will be repeated in 2020. In 2019, Alperia carried out a survey on brand perception, which showed 
Alperia’s Net Promoter Score was clearly higher than the average Italian utility company.  
 
-  Workforce: During 2019, we launched a survey to assess employee propensity to green mobility. It 
emerged that, at the time, more than half of respondents used their own means of transport to get to 
work: 40% used cars or motorbikes and 38% went by bicycle or on foot. Only 1 in 25 used public 
transport. However, 71% said they would consider using a bike if they were given one or received a 
contribution towards buying one; 67% said they would consider using public transport (but more than 
half, only occasionally or for temporary needs) and more than half of employees would be willing to take 
part in carpooling for their home-work journey. But that’s not all: training activities continued in 2019, 
including a specific safety day for each business unit, and a digitisation initiative for group managers. In 
2020, a new Communications Day is scheduled for the presentation of the new business plan. 
 
-  Suppliers: Alperia continued to involve its suppliers in the search for more sustainable solutions in 
2019. One example of this is the replacement of plastic coffee cups and spoons with biodegradable 
cups and wooden spoons in hot drink vending machines. Furthermore, as part of the cleaning tender, 
the request was made that all products comply with EC Regulation 648/2004 of the European 
Parliament and Council and with the minimum environmental criteria identified in chapter 6 points 6.1 
and 6.2, relating to detergents for sanitation services, window cleaning and multi-purpose super-
concentrated detergents. This commitment will continue in 2020, with the new tender for drink and snack 
vending machines including specific criteria for products such as organic, fair trade, wholemeal, vegan, 
and non-PET bottles. 
 
-  Owners  and  Investors:  Through  the  shareholders’  meeting,  Alperia’s  sustainability  strategy  is 
approved by its owners and supported by investors who are presented with the set and achieved 
objectives. Dialogue is developed across different channels, including shareholders’ meeting, the 
Supervisory Board report and periodic meetings with the owners.  
 
-  Interest groups: In 2019, Alperia signed various union agreements to harmonise working conditions of 
employees and ensure full fairness of treatment for all. Alperia is also involved in organisations and 
associations that deal with energy and innovation issues.  
 
-  Citizens: In 2019, Alperia organised several Open Days for the public, giving them the chance to find 
out how the plants are run. The days were certified as Green Events, a standard that Alperia has used 
since 2018 to endorse the organisation of sustainable events.  
 
-  Research institutes: Alperia invests in research and innovation in collaboration with some of the most 
important research institutes in the Alpine area, including the Free University of Bozen-Bolzano and 
Eurac Research Institute, its partner in the LIFE4HeatRecovery project. The project, which involves 
Alperia’s Engineering & Consulting department, aims to develop a new generation of smart district-
heating networks in which a large number of low-temperature heat sources (10–40°C) available within 
the urban circle can be effectively integrated. Collaboration with the Free University of Bozen-Bolzano 
was further strengthened in 2019, with Alperia taking part in a series of events and conferences such 
as the Sustainability Festival 2019, where it presented its commitment to climate change, and the 
“Energy Day – Synergies between economic and technical aspects” conference.  
 
  36 