Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
Sustainability Development Goals promoted by Alperia 
 
SDG 7   Ensuring access for all to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy systems → We 
Affordable  invest in the development of sustainable energy solutions as well as in the modernisation of our plants 
and clean  and networks. We plan to invest €400 million over a period of five years, in order to make our structures 
energy  even more resilient and reliable, even in the event of emergency or disruptions. It is our aim to primarily 
generate our energy from renewable sources (we are already at 94% today). We involve our suppliers 
in promoting sustainability and are developing new products such as green gas, services and business 
lines to help our customers be more energy efficient. Together with Edyna, our distribution subsidiary, 
we have planned to replace the meters of more than 200.000 customers with new-generation Smart 
Meters, which will allow more efficient management of energy resources. This activity involves an 
investment of over €41 million. 
SDG 9   Building a resilient infrastructure and promoting innovation and equitable, responsible and 
Business,  sustainable industrialisation → We have planned €88 million in investments for the Smart Region, 
innovation  which will be self-financed until 2021. Further projects will digitise assets and processes, backed by an 
and  investment of €18 million. We develop modern distribution networks, maintain and improve our systems, 
infrastructure  promote Smart City and eMobility projects and support innovative research projects with our Innovation 
Board and dedicated initiatives such as the Alperia Startup Factory.  
SDG 11   Making cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, durable and sustainable → We have 
Sustainable  launched projects that will encourage the development of more energy-efficient and sustainable cities. 
cities and  Examples include the Smart City project, investments in green mobility and expansion of the district 
communities  heating network in Merano and Bolzano. 
SDG 12   Ensuring sustainable patterns of production and consumption → Through targeted marketing 
Sustainable  measures and information campaigns, we aim to raise our customers' awareness of more sustainable 
consumption  consumption patterns and we strive to continuously develop our green product and service portfolio. 
and  Our commitment to more responsible consumption also involves our suppliers, making sure that 
production  products meet sustainability standards. Lastly, we ensure that our communication is increasingly 
transparent, socially and economically sustainable and even more central to the new business plan. 
 
    Duration of  28,07 
 
interruption per 
Value generated for South Tyrol   € 235.822.778   
customer (min) 
         
       
Net energy produced from  Energy availability 
94%   86,43% 
renewable sources  index (hydro plants) 
   
         
    Total investments  € 104.700.000  
Underground lines  71%    
 
         
    Percentage of  62% 
Number of interruptions   contracts awarded 
- 12%   
per customer  locally (based on 
(1,51)  number of contracts) 
         
         
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  40 