Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
Economic Development  
 
Risk management 
 
Risk  Management Approach 
Risk of not including objectives aligned with climate  We want to be ready to face climate change, increasing the 
change forecasts in Strategic Plans, increasing the  group’s resilience. For this reason, we include objectives directly 
Alperia  Group’s  resilience  for  possible  future  related to this topic in our Strategic Plans and we are diversifying 
scenarios.  the business by increasingly focusing on sustainable products 
  and services. 
Risk of failure to achieve the strategic objectives of  To contribute to the creation of the Smart Region of South Tyrol, 
infrastructure evolution and development of the  we collaborate with important research bodies to develop new 
Smart Region, due to inadequate management of  smart-grid solutions. 
partnerships  for  innovation  and  technological 
development. 
Risk  of  not  creating  added  value  for  all  We  want  to  effectively  communicate  with  stakeholders  and 
stakeholders  and  communicating  environmental  customers so as to avoid any type of unfavourable perception 
and social performance in an ineffective way with a  related to sustainability.  
consequent unfavourable consumer, investor and 
other  stakeholder  perception  on  sustainability 
issues. 
Risk of failure to implement both the environmental  We want to ensure the well-being of the riparian municipalities. 
obligations  of  the  concession  contract  and  For this reason, we build public works to support the environment 
spending commitments with potential impact on the  and implement dedicated projects, directly involving the riparian 
failure to improve the surrounding environment and  municipality communities and respecting all the obligations laid 
the degree of satisfaction of riparian municipality  down by provincial legislation. 
communities. 
Risk of failure to create added value for South Tyrol  We want to create €1,2 billion of added value for South Tyrol over 
in the areas envisaged by the corporate strategy,  a period of five years. For this reason, we take strategic action to 
such as: jobs, local taxes and social commitment.  support the local economy with taxes, job creation and social 
commitment. 
 
 
As indicated in the 2017–2021 Strategic Plan, Alperia pursues sustainable economic growth, characterised by 
a moderate level of indebtedness, stable valuation and cash-flow generation that allows for significant 
investment and the annual distribution of dividends to shareholders. In 2019, we continued to diversify our 
activities, both economically and geographically, particularly as regards expansion in Northern Italy and 
strengthening green aspects of our business. In this way, we intend to increasingly shelter the group financially 
from the fluctuations in price and production that characterise the hydroelectric power market. This will result 
in significant financial value for South Tyrol in the medium and long term. In addition, there will be indirect 
effects from planned investments, as outlined in the strategic plan for the next few years. These include 
infrastructure development and the Smart Region, with which Alperia aims to make a significant contribution 
to creating an innovative and digital South Tyrol. To achieve these objectives, Alperia is planning numerous 
investments aimed at modernising its infrastructures and increasing the sale of green gas and energy. 
 
Measures implemented in order to achieve the objectives of the 2017–2021 Strategic Plan, together with 
related updates, are available on the company’s website at www.alperia.eu in the News area.    
  41 