Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
signed with local cooperatives in Trentino and Emilia-Romagna that will allow further infrastructure to be 
built regionally. 
 
The most important agreements include one with Jaguar Italia for the installation of ten hyperchargers. 
These are high-speed charging columns developed by the South Tyrolean company alpitronic. They have 
a potential power of up to 150 kW, three times that of normal FAST columns and in the future could reach 
up to 300 kW, charging a vehicle in less than half an hour. The advantage of the hypercharger is its 
modularity. It can initially be configured at a lower power level and subsequently modules can be added to 
add more power. To charge a vehicle, customers simply use their card or smartphone app. The charging 
station can also be accessed by paying directly on-site with a credit card or PayPal, through an innovative 
software system developed with Siemens Italia. Some trial collaborations have also begun with UniCredit, 
for the development of the company’s internal mobility, and with the multi-utility company Acea Roma, 
which acquired 20 Neogy chargers.  
 
Neogy is also participating in three European projects:  
 
-  Storage4Grid: A research and innovation project funded by the European Union’s Horizon 2020 
programme, a collaboration between Alperia’s Engineering Service and Edyna. By using a real 
scenario, the project aims to assess future demand for the domestic and commercial/industrial 
use of electric mobility, by increasing the spread of storage technology at the distribution-network 
and end-user level. It does this through the development of a new holistic methodology for 
modelling, planning, integration, management and evaluation of distributed energy-storage 
systems. There are already two storage systems installed in Edyna’s car park. 
 
-  Mobster: This project, funded by the European Union and headed by Italy’s Eurac Research 
Institute in Bolzano, aims to increase the attractiveness of cross-border locations with strong 
tourist appeal. The expected impact is an increase in energy produced from renewable sources, 
the reduction of CO2 emissions and the development of a charging network to encourage the use 
of electrically powered vehicles. Mobster focuses on three areas: South Tyrol, Verbano-Cusio-
Ossola and the Canton of Ticino. 
 
-  LIFE: This European project aims to increase the use of zero-emission cars and vehicles by 2025. 
The LIFE project is structured into five activity areas. The first relates to the diffusion of zero-
emission vehicles, for private and public mobility alike. The second area relates to the supply 
infrastructure with 33 new charging stations for electric cars and five hydrogen distributors 
between Bolzano, Merano, Brunico, Val Venosta and the A22. Bolzano, Brunico, Merano and Val 
Venosta will also be the first areas chosen to test a fleet of zero-emission vehicles for private and 
public mobility. The final two project areas will relate to marketing initiatives and the dissemination 
of know-how. The LIFE project partners are Alperia, the energy consortium of Val Venosta, the 
Brunico public service company, STA (Strutture Trasporto Alto Adige SpA), Eurac, the A22 
highway and SASA, with the latter being responsible for coordinating all the initiatives. In total, the 
planned investment in South Tyrol is around €22,6 million. With €7,9 million from European funds, 
around €7 million is being made available by the Province of Bolzano, with the remaining €7,8 
million divided among the partners. The project officially launched on 1 January 2019 and will 
continue for eight years. 
 
Around 230 public charging stations are currently installed within South Tyrol; that’s 130 more than the 
previous year. At the end of 2019, 400.000 kWh had been drawn (double compared to 2018), with 
2.273.000 km travelled and 400.000 kg of CO  saved (1.100.000 km and 200.000 kg in 2018, 
2
respectively).  
 
A co-marketing campaign with Car-Server was also developed to promote electric mobility though e-test-
days. 
 
Finally, there is continued participation in Motus-E, an association made up of industrial operators and 
academia, together with environmental and consumer associations. The aim is to accelerate the 
development of electric mobility in Italy through dialogue with institutions, public involvement and the 
 
spread of training and information programmes.
 
  46 