Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
Security of Supply  
 
Risk management 
 
   
 
Risk  Management Approach 
 
   
Risk of inadequate measures/failure to  We want to be ready for climate-change forecasts, which is why we are 
manage long-term climate change with  diversifying our portfolio. 
potential variable demand of various 
stakeholders determined by different 
weather scenarios (e.g. expansion of the 
heating network vs. global warming) 
 
Risk of inadequate investment in measures  To improve plants in terms of availability, reliability and efficiency, we 
to improve plant performance in terms of  have planned investment of €400 million over a period of five years in the 
availability, reliability and efficiency  core business (Strategic Plan 2017–2021). We are also expanding the 
district heating network in Bolzano and Merano. 
 
Risk of potential malfunctions/interruptions  To avoid the risk of potential malfunctions in electricity distribution and 
in the distribution of energy, gas and district  with the aim of reducing both the frequency and duration of power 
heating due to:  interruptions themselves, we have created a portal for businesses where 
- inadequate activities to prevent damage  they can register to view the status of underground lines. In addition, 
from adverse weather events  we’ve taken out insurance policies in order to mitigate the potential 
- inadequate inspections, maintenance and  damage of adverse weather events. 
planning of new connections 
 
Risk of potential malfunctions/interruptions  To  improve  service  quality  and  grid-infrastructure  modernisation, 
in the distribution of electricity due to:   ensuring greater stability, we have provided for the progressive burial of 
- infrastructure inadequacy of the electricity  cables to ensure greater stability of the distribution infrastructure. 
grid (e.g. availability, reliability, efficiency)  
-  inadequate  level  of  automation  (e.g. 
detection of faults and malfunctions) 
- inadequate new connection planning 
 
Risk of inadequate connection expansion  We are expanding the district heating network in both Merano and 
measures in the Bolzano district heating  Bolzano and have also connected Edyna with district heating. 
network with potential impact on customer 
satisfaction 
 
 
Responsible infrastructure management means not only preventing faults and disruption for users, but also 
eliminating all inefficiencies that require the use of resources and energy. For this reason, Alperia ensures the 
resilience of its plants every day with constant monitoring and maintenance activities, in addition to a structured 
investment plan. 
 
 
Green energy supply {GRI EU2; GRI EU10; GRI EU30}  
 
Alperia supplies sustainable energy to the whole of South Tyrol through the 34 power plants it manages. About 
90% of the energy produced comes from local hydroelectric resources; the quantity produced is higher than 
the province’s annual energy consumption. South Tyrol’s average annual electricity consumption is around 3 
TWh. In 2019, Alperia produced 4.044 GWh of hydroelectric power, around 2% more than the previous year.  
 
In addition, we produced 22 GWh from photovoltaic systems, 47 GWh from cogeneration (compared to 53 in 
2018) and 260 GWh from biomass (221 in 2018). Given the upward trend in electricity consumption, evidenced 
by data collected by TERNA (2008–2017), and assuming that the average production volumes do not change 
significantly over time, it is considered that Alperia’s hydroelectric production can cover electricity demand in 
South Tyrol up to 2050.  
 
 
 
  49 