Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
Close to people 
 
In 2019, we supplied electricity, natural gas and district heating to 323.772 customers, including families, large 
and  small  businesses  and  public  institutions.  We  put  transparent,  efficient  and  reliable  customer 
communication systems in place, as demonstrated by our high customer satisfaction rates measured last year 
(87% of our customers are "very satisfied" with the service they received).  
 
We also increased the proportion of paperless bills by 3 percentage points to 27%, although our goal is to 
reach 90%. All the material we use for our communications and internal use is printed on 100% Forest 
Stewardship Council certified paper; we also offset the CO  emissions. In addition, every year, we scrutinise 
2
our advertising materials to ensure we are making the most sustainable choices. In 2019, we reduced the 
number of printed brochures from 35.000 to 17.250 as well. 
 
This year we again organised numerous Open Days in power plants to increase cognisance about what we 
do and raise community awareness on energy issues; each Open Day was certified as a Green Event. In 
addition, we continued to support the community with our charitable donations and sponsor South Tyrolean 
organisations in the fields of sport, culture, environmental protection and safety. In fact, the Alperia brand was 
South Tyrol’s most recognised in sports, for the first time in 2019. In 2019 alone, we allocated around €1,7 
million in donations and sponsorships.  
 
Furthermore, Alperia contributes to the Protection System for Asylum Seekers and Refugees (SPRAR) project, 
making facilities available in Barbiano (which has already welcomed 17 asylum seekers and refugees) and 
Naturno. 
 
 
The value of our team 
 
Over 1.000 people work with us. We are a close-knit team, increasing our skill set every day with numerous 
training courses on strategic issues such as workplace safety and change management; in 2020, courses on 
cyber security will be added. Occupational health & safety is fundamental for us. In 2019, despite an almost 
unchanged number of accidents, unfortunately we saw an increase in lost working days, which increased from 
293 to 427 (+46%) due to a serious accident that led to a high number of absence days. This has spurred us 
on to be increasingly rigorous in adopting policies to limit the risk of accidents as much as possible, both for 
our employees and for external companies operating on our premises. In 2019, for example, we further 
improved the system for assessing contractor work performance and continued to raise employee awareness 
with new tools such as information tips with the hashtag #weworksafely and videos. 
 
To deal with the many employees expected to retire in the coming years, we are working on a succession 
plan. We’ve also implemented a range of measures to attract more women into our profession and reduce the 
gender pay gap. In 2019, in particular, the number of women at governance level saw a significant increase 
from 33% to 42%. In addition, during the year we hired 62% more women than in 2018, with a consequent 
improvement in the diversity rate, which increased from 21% to 23%. We will continue to pursue these targets 
relentlessly, including through the expansion of work-life balance and flexibility measures. To this end, in 2019, 
we extended our nursery-school contribution to municipal structures, increasing potential beneficiaries from 9 
to 90 people. Paternity leave is becoming increasingly common. In 2019, 84% of working dads benefited from 
approximately 2,7 weeks of leave (up from the previous year, when the average length was 1,7 weeks). In 
addition, each employee can take advantage of a dedicated welfare program, supplementary health insurance, 
insurance against accidents at work and those outside work in the event of permanent disability.  
 
To increase our retention levels, we have implemented career and talent development plans, and extended 
employee feedback interviews from 27% to 51%, with the aim of involving 100% of our people.  
 
Creating a healthy and wellness-focussed workplace also means raising employee awareness on the issue of 
sustainability. Because of this, we introduced glass water bottles, drinking water dispensers, free apples and 
sanitisers to our offices. Soon we will add new measures such as providing organic, vegan and wholemeal 
snacks in our vending machines.  
 
This range of actions has significantly increased worker satisfaction. Our 2019 survey saw the satisfaction rate 
increase to 50%. This result inspires us to make further improvements, ensuring that everyone is supported in 
making their contribution to creating a greener and more energy-efficient future. 
 
  6 