Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
home’s consumption curve. With updates every 15 minutes and new features allowing for a connection to 
other technology and devices, the meters monitor energy consumption in greater detail and show exactly how 
much energy each individual appliance uses. Once replaced, the old meters will not be treated like normal 
waste: 96% will be recycled to produce chairs. Each new chair recycles the plastic from 18 replaced meters. 
This too demonstrates how crucial sustainability and circularity are to our work.  
 
Through Edyna, Alperia is also working on the development of Smart Grids that allow production, storage, grid 
and consumption to be managed through a single system. The project, developed together with Regalgrid 
Europe S.r.l., a leader in the digital energy sector, provides a platform that offers users advanced features to 
monitor, optimise and manage self-produced and consumed energy in real-time, both at the individual user 
and community level. This is an evolving area, also set up through the European Flexi-grid project. By 
exploiting digital technologies, smart grids, IoT and blockchain, the intention is to provide a transparent platform 
for data management, transmitting real-time information on grid conditions to the operator. As a result, grid 
flows are optimised, ensuring reliability, stability and security along the entire electrical grid of the TSO 
(Transport System Operator) and DSO (Distribution System Operator).  
 
Edyna  is  also  implementing  the Edyna  Smart  platform  in  its  headquarters,  monitoring  and managing 
consumption as follows:  
 
-  Smart Water: rainwater collection for irrigation, measurement of water transit and detection of soil 
moisture, as well as intelligent irrigation based on forecast and/or received weather data 
-  Smart Vehicle: intelligent parking system at the Edyna headquarters, which identifies free spaces, 
counts vehicle numbers, provides a parking system for bikes and motorbikes and has electric-charging 
columns 
-  Smart Lighting: intelligent lighting system with detection sensors 
-  Smart Access: automatic access recognition system 
 
Once the development phase is complete, the system will be brought to market to encourage better energy 
resource management.  
 
 
Monitoring and accountability  
 
Edyna monitors and manages electricity grids and gas network 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, through a 
remote monitoring system in Bolzano that guarantees a safe, high-quality distribution service. Edyna 
oversees the management of these networks and, in the event of malfunctions, has a 24-hour emergency 
call centre with bilingual staff and a team of experts to promptly repair any faults. All unplanned interruptions 
of the distribution network are recorded at the remote monitoring system and analysed during monthly 
meetings. These meetings are attended by the four area managers (East Zone, West Zone, Central Zone 
and South Zone). Together with the managers of the Technical Area and Network Operation, they identify 
the worst lines, i.e. the lines that are most affected by issues, and the root causes of the interruptions. In 
2019 there were 1,51 supply interruptions per customer. That represents a SAIFI (System Average 
Interruption Frequency Index) reduction of -12% compared to 2018; the duration was 28,07 minutes, an 
increase of 3% in SAIDI (System Average Interruption Duration Index) compared to 2018. With careful 
distribution network planning, expansion of remote monitoring systems, optimisation of service availability 
and future investments in software, SAIDI/SAIFI indicators can be maintained and even improved, which 
means better continuity of power supply for Edyna’s customers.  
 
 
Figure 9: System Average Interruption Duration/Frequency Index (SAIFI/SAIDI)  
{GRI EU28/29} 
               
Unit  2019  2018    2017  2016  YtY variation  
  
SAIFI (Frequency of interruptions per customer)  nr  1,51   1,73    1,69  1,59  –12% 
SAIDI (Power outage duration per customer)  minutes  28,07   27,36    20,74  23,66  3% 
 
   
 
 
             
  51 