Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
It should be noted that the majority of Alperia's purchases pertains to the group’s core business, and therefore 
comprises technical equipment (cables, transformers and turbines) and raw materials (natural gas, wood, oil, 
lubricants and chemical products for the production and distribution of electricity and for district heating). Office 
supplies make up a smaller percentage of the total volume of purchases. 
 
All Alperia suppliers must accept the principles of the group’s Code of Ethics and uphold them, beginning with 
the respect and protection of human rights (included in all tenders and purchase orders managed by 
Procurement), occupational health and safety, as well as respect for the environment and sustainability. To 
ensure purchase procedures follow these criteria a new organisational system was implemented during 2019, 
to keep track of information requested and received by suppliers. It includes the 231 Model, registration on the 
White List according to the provisions of the Anti-Mafia Code and certifications held. 
 
In addition, the BravoSolution system was put in place to manage tenders, making document management 
with suppliers more efficient.  
 
Alperia uses a variety of tools to verify that our suppliers comply with precise environmental and social 
standards:  
 
-  Register of suppliers: Alperia created a structured register of suppliers in 2017. To be included on 
the register, suppliers must complete a questionnaire and document actions taken in certain areas, 
such as occupational health and safety. Suppliers are subject to three-year qualification and must 
demonstrate that they have specific social/environmental certifications (e.g. ISO 14001, ISO 45001, 
EMAS) or equivalent measures in place. The register is updated continuously; additional requirements 
were added in 2019. 
 
-  Tenders: Alperia has established a process for assessing the minimum sustainability requirements 
associated with a given product for the group’s supply tenders. . In 2019, a check list was also added 
to contracts; it is attached to the RDA (Purchase Request) and all the individual units must complete 
it. This list contains factors to be applied for both tender management and contract drafting. 
 
-  Vendor Rating System: The Vendor Rating System is an instrument that guarantees the quality of 
suppliers and minimises the risk of loss and dependence. The system provides that the collaboration 
of suppliers of strategic importance is evaluated internally on the basis of a standard questionnaire, in 
which  the  quality  of  services  provided,  safety  standards  and  commitment  to  environmental 
sustainability are considered. These criteria allow the performance of individual suppliers to be 
assessed. This application will be implemented through the introduction of dedicated software. 
 
-  Supplier audits: Alperia can carry out supplier audits for all suppliers, verifying information received 
and carrying out on-site visits and interviews.  
 
Alperia is also taking action to improve consumption sustainability in its workplaces. It eliminated plastic water 
bottles by replacing them with company glass dispensers; organic and Fair Trade products are to be stocked 
in drinks and food-vending machines. These measures can lead to greater awareness about sustainability 
issues among employees and make a solid contribution to the group's green evolution.  
 
Vendor Rating System  
 
During the bidding phase, did the supplier impose penalty clauses for the Alperia Group? Were penalties 
applied? Was the contract terminated for reasons attributable to the supplier? Were invoices issued within 
the agreed times? Did machines comply with the required performance standards? And did they comply 
with current safety regulations? Were safety emergencies managed properly? Did the supplier manage 
waste in accordance with current legislation? Were suitable measures taken to reduce environmental 
impact? Does the relationship with the supplier contribute to the creation of value for South Tyrol? These 
are some of the Vendor Rating questions that ensure suppliers meet Alperia's requirements, with a focus 
on economic, social and environmental sustainability issues. 
 
 
 
 
  61 