Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
 
Sustainability Development Goals promoted by Alperia 
 
SDG 12   Ensuring sustainable patterns of production and consumption →Through targeted 
Sustainable  marketing measures and information campaigns, we aim to raise our customers' 
consumption and  awareness of more sustainable consumption patterns and we strive to continuously 
production  develop our green product and service portfolio.. We also launched several projects for 
sustainable water resource management, and are implementing an action plan for the 
improvement and conservation of the landscape. Investments equal hundreds of millions of 
euros; a duration of thirty years was agreed with the Autonomous Province of Bolzano. We are 
committed  to  conserving  the  biodiversity  of  the  region  through  activities  such  as  the 
management of basin sediments, constructing fish ladders and other landscape improvement 
activities.  
SDG 13  Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts → We support the 
Combat climate  Autonomous Province of Bolzano's 2050 Climate Plan and are reducing our greenhouse gas 
change  emissions. To this end, we have begun reporting activities related to environmental KPIs for 
the purposes of the Sustainability Report to monitor group emissions and carbon intensity. We 
assess the risks and opportunities of climate change (e.g. water scarcity, storms and 
regulation). We also invest in the production and use of products with lower greenhouse gas 
emissions and encourage the development of internal and external e-mobility. We are working 
hard to ensure that citizens and our stakeholders are more aware of environmental issues. 
 
 
In figures 
 
Energy consumption generated  3.544 TJ 
   
Energy consumption from renewable sources  66% 
   
Electric, hybrid, hydrogen company cars  over 100 
 
GHG Intensity   0,03 
(tCO2e/Mwh of produced energy) 
   
 
 
 
 
Water {ALP6; ALP7}  
     
   
Risk  Management Approach 
 
   
Risk of failure to manage climate change and  We invest in the safety and resilience of our plants to make sure we 
the growth of weather phenomena (e.g. floods  are prepared for the possible impact of climate change. Furthermore, 
and droughts) with impact on the water cycle  we promote research and development activities (for example, with the 
and reservoirs with related implications for  Alperia Startup Factory project and in collaborations with universities 
plant productivity  and innovative companies across the world) to improve the safety of 
  our infrastructure. 
 
Risk  of  non-compliance  with  regulatory  We  want  to  guarantee  the  highest  level  of  compliance  with 
provisions  environmental legislation. For this reason, we comply with all provisions 
and seek all the necessary authorisations from the relevant bodies. We 
comply with regulatory provisions on Minimum Vital Flow so as not to 
cause damage to local flora and fauna. We also have ISO 45001, 
14001, 9001 certification and EMAS registration. 
 
Risk of possible contamination from water  We want to minimise the environmental impact of the water our plants 
from open cycle cooling systems  return to rivers. We’re gradually replacing open cycle systems with 
closed cycle systems, among other things, for this reason. 
  64 