Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
 
Risk  of  not  implementing  compensation  We actively protect the environment as well as the biological diversity 
measures (e.g. fish ladders, renaturalisation  of  waterways.  We  do  this  by  using  funding  provided  by  the 
or restoration of the original landscape when  environmental fund to implement various morphological improvement 
plants  are  decommissioned)  and  loss  of  measures  for  waterways  affected  by  hydroelectric  shunts. 
biodiversity   Furthermore,  we  organise  working  groups  involving  various 
stakeholders  in  order  to  define  the  most  suitable  compensation 
measures. 
 
 
 
Hydropower is one of the most important renewable energy sources. Alperia produces energy through 34 
hydroelectric plants, 14 large dams and 17 smaller sites, all located in South Tyrol. By generating an average 
of around 4.000 GWh of clean energy per year, we guarantee a sustainable energy supply. With hydroelectric 
energy, we can avoid producing energy with thermal power plants and CO  emissions are significantly 
2
reduced. 
 
Although it is a clean energy source, hydroelectricity can still impact the environment. A hydroelectric plant 
can interfere with the normal modelling action of a watercourse, specifically:  
 
-  barrier structures and the tanks retain a portion of the solid material transported by water, which must 
be managed properly and, as far as possible, returned to the downstream riverbed  
-  through dams, which allow us to guarantee production in times of greatest need, we also regulate the 
volume  of  water  flowing  downstream  during  floods,  reducing  the  maximum  flow  rate  and  the 
destructive force of the water and guaranteeing, within certain limits, the availability of water resources 
for other uses during dry periods  
-  by building fish ladders for intake works and consolidating fish stocks, we mitigate the impact of the 
derivation works of our plants 
-  we implement numerous measures to improve the waterways through the compensation funds, in 
collaboration with the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, with the coastal municipalities and with the 
fishing associations, including consolidating fish stocks, building fish ladders for intake works and 
conservation and improvement of the landscape  
 
 
A primary resource: Water and its sustainable management 
  
Water is an essential asset and the basis of most of our activities. That is why we have developed a way of 
sustainably managing this primary resource. In addition to participating in a working group with the provincial 
offices and working on the protection of the aquatic environment, fish and regular river cleaning, we are 
developing new initiatives. At the end of 2019, we signed an agreement with the Venosta Valley Reclamation 
Consortium. This agreement aims to guarantee the necessary amount of water to protect orchards from 
night frosts during the spring flowering period, identifying more efficient supply methods and providing for 
an increase in the quantities of water to be made available. This involves the entire Venosta Valley orchard 
area, so the numbers are very significant. The protected orchard area is around 1.600 ha and extends to 
around 2.200 ha. Alperia will guarantee the provision of approximately 20.000 Lt/sec (corresponding to the 
entire natural flow in April of a large waterway, such as the Adige River, within the province) on nights when 
there is a solid risk of night frosts (7–8 nights/year on average). This is made possible with the volumes 
stored in the artificial basins in Resia and Gioveretto and will be provided free of charge. The water will be 
drained off for an entire night, reducing the company's possible profit margins, to guarantee an alternative 
use of the water for the region's agricultural economy. A similar agreement has also been entered into with 
the Piazzadella Consortium of Bolzano.  
 
Through the Smart Land project, Alperia has installed over 120 moisture sensors in the fields of 60 South 
Tyrolean fruit and vine growers. These sensors are able to record and monitor irrigation process data, giving 
farmers real-time measurements. We believe that agricultural land irrigation is a key issue in terms of 
sustainable resource management. The project is being developed with the Laimburg Research Centre and 
the Fruit and Vegetable Consultation Centre. 
 
 
Lastly, Alperia Bartucci has developed a project to optimise the Trento aqueduct water network, which will 
be managed by Novareti. Alperia Bartucci designed and implemented an advanced algorithm based on 
  65 