Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
predictive models. This allows optimised water pumping from wells to tanks and minimises network 
pressure, ensuring more efficient management with lower resource loss and waste levels. Implementing the 
project with the Energy Performance Contract (E.P.C) Saving Sharing formula allowed Novareti to measure 
and share the benefits actually achieved. This not only allows water resources to be used sustainably, but 
also generates economic benefits in terms of the kWh of electricity saved per year. Specifically, in energy 
terms, the savings generated by the project are equal to 240.000 kWh/year (45 toe/year; 74 tonnes 
CO /year) and water loss savings of 680.000 m3/year. On an economic level, savings generated taking into 
2
account optimised pumping, loss reduction and fault reduction are approximately €75.000 per year. The 
project began in the spring of 2019, following structural work on the civil works supported by Novareti in the 
previous year, and will be monitored by Alperia Bartucci for the duration of the E.P.C. (5 years). 
 
 
 
Sediment Management  
 
Mountain watercourses have a slow but continuous erosion effect on the ground and rocks. The degree of this 
erosion is influenced by the speed and flow of the water, the chemical-physical nature of the rocks and the 
adjacent land, as well as the quality and quantity of transported material. The attrition of the material 
transported against the banks and the bottom of the riverbed can considerably accentuate the erosive action 
of the stream. A hydroelectric plant can interfere with the normal modelling action of a watercourse as the 
barrage structures and the reservoirs retain some of the solid materials transported. The solid material (gravel 
and silt) deposited in the reservoirs can disturb the operational ability of hydraulic works and deep discharge 
units. Some reservoirs are subject to progressive burying, which reduces their storage capacity. Through 
management and mechanical removal activities, it is possible to reduce the progressive build up by facilitating 
the passage of sediment, for example during flooding. In particular, action can be taken with mechanical 
removal and/or the controlled release of sediment on the bottom of basins by opening the deep discharge 
components in dams. In small reservoirs, for example in accumulation tanks with relatively small volumes of 
sediment, work mainly involves mechanical removal. In large reservoirs, the most suitable method to remove 
sediment build up is controlled release. Periodic basin draining is necessary for various reasons: to allow 
deposited material to flow downstream, so work can be carried out on interception works, to maintain the 
basin’s useful storage capacity over time and to restore the watercourse. The burying of artificial reservoirs is 
subject to specific water-protection rules and provisions. The general objective set by the regulations is to 
ensure hydraulic safety of the barrier works, so that the reservoir capacity is maintained and to safeguard both 
the quality of the reservoir water and the groundwater. The management plan aims to maintain and gradually 
restore reservoir capacity and ensure discharge and intake works are functioning correctly.  
 
Based on the approved management project and the further provisions of the Autonomous Province of 
Bolzano, Alperia removed sediment from the Rio Pusteria hydroelectric basin on the Rienza River through 
controlled release in 2019. According to the fishing association, this compromised the river ecosystem and 
harmed fish.  
 
Alperia Greenpower carried out the controlled release work according to authorised methods that were 
monitored and validated by the relevant provincial offices, with which management projects have been agreed 
upon since 2013 in order to limit the impact of draining/controlled release on aquatic fauna. This ensured that 
Alperia Greenpower did not receive any objection from the supervisory authorities again in 2019. That said, 
there is no doubt that controlled release of sediment has a temporary impact on the watercourse, with the 
consequent loss of most of the fry born in the year the work is carried out. In light of this, trial works are planned 
for 2020 at the Fortezza Basin, in order to dredge the sediment and then send it to the Bressanone plant 
derivation works. The results of this trial will clarify if dredging is suitable as a total or partial replacement for 
controlled release of sediment. 
 
In 2019, Alperia also removed sediment from the Monguelfo Basin with dredging.  
 
Finally, it should be noted that all sediment-management activities carried out by Alperia Greenpower are 
subject to EMAS assessments, are ISO 14.001 certified and are improved year on year with increasingly 
efficient filtering systems. To this end, two new filters were installed in 2019: in Funes on the Isarco River and 
in Tel on the Adige River. 
 
 
Minimum Vital Flow {303-2}  
 
  66 