Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
Minimum vital flow (MVF) means the quantity of water that needs to be downstream of a water collection to 
guarantee the correct functioning and quality of the ecosystems concerned. The MVF is the residual flow rate 
that protects the natural biocoenosis of the water course in the short and long term. During flooding and when 
natural flow rates are high, plants, depending on their size, withdraw water up to the maximum flow rate allowed 
by the concession decrees; in lean periods, meanwhile, there may be a reduction in the significant flow rate in 
some sections of the riverbeds. In the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, the release of the MVF from a 
hydroelectric branch is regulated by the new General Plan for the Use of Public Water (PGUAP). In 2019, the 
MVF (Lt/sec) was 38.926. During the year, the MVF major branch monitoring programme set up with the 
province was carried out; the programme ended in 2018 for four of these, Molini di Tures, Lappago, Sarentino 
and San Pancrazio. An external consultant carried out the limnological surveys, analysing the results and 
supporting the preparation of the final reports. The work ended with the monitoring results being presented to 
the province.  
 
In this context, the energy enhancement of the MVF discharged at the Tel plant pass is highlighted. 
Construction of a hydroelectric plant is planned for 2021–2022, in order to further improve the production of 
electricity from renewable sources. 
 
 
Fish Ladders  
 
A further environmental problem is the presence of obstacles for fish fauna that can interrupt migratory flows 
and interfere with movements to reproduction and feeding areas. Intake works at hydroelectric plants can also 
be a barrier to fish migration. To encourage the improvement of fish species life, artificial passages (fish 
ladders) to the intake structures are planned for some plants. In 2019, monitoring of fish movement through 
the new ladder built in the Sarntal Valley in Rabenstein (Corvara) was carried out. The ladder, built in 
agreement with the Hunting and Fishing Office and Water Protection Office under environmental plans, is 
uniformly divided into 16 small tanks, allowing fish and other aquatic species to easily overcome the water 
level difference. 
 
 
Environmental Plans  
 
In agreement with the competent authorities, Alperia has defined an improvement and conservation plan for 
the landscape, involving a total investment of hundreds of millions of euros over thirty years (in 2019 alone 
this amounted to around €18 million). These environmental plans are a key element of the concessions for 
large hydroelectric plants awarded in 2011. The types of measures for which compensation funds can be used, 
as defined in Provincial Resolution No. 199/2017, are:  
 
-  measures in favour of the aquatic ecosystem 
-  measures to improve the environmental and social sustainability of energy supply 
-  measures in support of nature, the landscape and the ecosystem 
-  measures to prevent and protect against natural disasters and to secure rural infrastructures 
-  measures to prevent and adapt to climate change 
-  measures to improve energy efficiency 
-  measures in the field of technical protection of the environment 
 
A part of these investments is directly allocated to individual municipalities. So far, 43 riparian municipalities 
have received environmental funding and completed several projects, including: wastewater treatment system 
improvements, natural environment restoration or improvement, energy-saving measures, reducing pollution 
and preserving the alpine landscape. A portion of the investment goes to the Province of Bolzano, which uses 
it to implement activities to improve the aquatic habitat, such as the redevelopment of the Talvera River and 
the restructuring of the banks of Bolzano’s Isarco River. Added to these are the measures implemented by the 
concessionaire with the objective of improving the environmental impact of hydroelectric production plants, 
such as the construction of fishways and the environmental monitoring of water sections to ensure and 
optimise minimum vital flow.  
 
In addition to works already carried out in the large hydroelectric plants of Santa Valburga-Pracomune, San 
Pancrazio, Lana, Sarentino, Cardano, Ponte Gardena, Bressanone, Lappago, Molini di Tures, Brunico, 
Marlengo, Tel, Vizze, Glorenza, Castelbello, Lasa and San Floriano, activities were financed for the Barbiano 
plant in 2019. In addition, as part of the activities set out in the environmental plans, Alperia Greenpower 
installed a new filter in Funes, on the Isarco River, and is installing two more in Tel, on the Adige River. It 
  67 