Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
2019 HIGHLIGHTS 
 
 
BUSINESS  In 2019, we made progress with important corporate operations including 
closing the acquisition of Gruppo Green Power SpA. Alperia Smart Mobility Srl, 
the company responsible for developing electric mobility, saw Dolomiti Energia 
Holding SpA enter into its share capital, leading to the creation of the Neogy 
Srl joint venture. We also reorganised the group’s commercial activities. All 
operations were in line with the business plan, the objective of which is to 
transform Alperia from a traditional utility company to an all-round energy 
service provider. 
 
STRATEGY &  We achieved 78% of the 2019 targets set out in the 2017–2021 Sustainability 
GOVERNANCE   Plan and created a new sustainability policy. We are working on drafting the 
  2020–2024 Strategic Plan, which will integrate the UN’s SDG into the business 
plan of each business unit, rendering CSR increasingly strategic for our group. 
In addition, we decided that the degree of achievement of sustainability 
objectives must also have a bearing on our executive MBO (Management by 
Objectives) scheme, in addition to the company bonus scheme. 
 
RISK MANAGEMENT  In 2019, in addition to identifying financial and plant risks, we assessed the 
group's non-financial risks, monitoring the safeguards put in place and their 
effectiveness. The process led to the identification of 58 risks, most of which 
had  already  been  included  in  the  2017–2021  Sustainability  Plan  with 
appropriate containment measures. Following the analysis carried out, there 
are three remaining significant risks for Alperia: the ageing workforce, the 
expansion of electric mobility and stakeholder engagement on sustainability 
issues. We are already actively working on these issues.  
 
SUPPLY SECURITY  In November, heavy snowfall hit South Tyrol causing one or more faults on 57 
  medium-voltage power lines and interrupted supply to 25.000 users. We 
managed the emergency by installing temporary generators (GE) to restore 
service  as  soon  as  possible.  Situations  such  as  this  demonstrate  how 
important  it  is  to  continue  investing  in  infrastructure  maintenance  and 
modernisation, to make it increasingly resilient and efficient and to continue 
running power lines underground to ensure they remain stable even in an 
emergency. Edyna is also replacing traditional meters with new generation 
Smart Meters, which are able to measure consumption in greater detail and 
communicate with other devices, representing a new frontier in Smart Home 
development. 
 
ADDED ECONOMIC  In 2019, we created €235 million of added value for South Tyrol, through 
VALUE  payments to public bodies, staff salaries and benefits, contracts for local 
companies (reaching a 62% share), sponsorships, donations and dividends to 
local shareholders. Our goal is to generate added value of €1,2 billion over five 
years, by 2021.  
 
SUSTAINABLE  In 2019, revenue generated by Alperia through sustainable products and 
PRODUCTS AND  services increased by 1,6%, a figure which the next business plan aims to 
SERVICES  further increase. We will do this by increasingly investing in green gas, green 
energy,  district  heating,  energy  efficiency  and  electric  mobility  and  by 
continuing to offset the amount of CO  generated with specific investment in 
2
projects to protect the environment. 
 
CUSTOMER  We  supply  our  products  and  services  to  323.772  customers,  building 
SATISFACTION  relationships  based  on  transparency  and  trust. We  do  this  by  efficiently 
managing their requests (every month we actively respond to 97% of calls 
received, performing better than the 85% response-rate goal set by the 
authority). 
 
  8 