Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
RESEARCH AND  We have developed numerous innovative projects, including two through the 
DEVELOPMENT  Innovation Board (for UVAM and the creation of a customer service chatbot), 
plus others such as Smart Edyna, Smart Land, Regalgrid and Flexi-Grid, which 
involve the collaboration of numerous parties and business units. We also 
chose the winners of the Alperia Startup Factory, our competition to promote 
innovation in the field of renewable energy and the green economy.  We’ve 
already  launched  the  second  competition,  to  which  230  teams  from  37 
countries around the world have applied. The winning start-ups of the first 
competition were FieldBox.ai and Beedata: the former was selected for its 
digital solution to monitor strain on penstocks and the latter for its system to 
create energy bills with additional information and sophisticated data analysis. 
 
EMISSIONS  We are supporting the Autonomous Province of Bolzano’s 2050 Climate Plan 
by  reducing  our  greenhouse-gas  emissions.  To  reduce  mobility-related 
emissions, we are working to ensure that 50% of the company's car fleet is 
made up of electric vehicles in the next three years; we already have over 100 
electric or hybrid vehicles. To this end, we carried out a survey among our 
employees to gauge their reactions to green mobility and identify suitable 
measures to promote more sustainable ways to travel between and home and 
work. During 2019, we also continued to extend the district heating network to 
Bolzano and Merano, and connected our first subsidiary, Edyna, to district 
heating. With this system, we are investing in an ecological form of heating, 
allowing us to further reduce fossil-fuel consumption and CO  emissions. 
2
 
EMPLOYEES  We have implemented individual career development as well as talent and 
leadership plans for our employees. To attract more women into technical 
professions, we have strengthened our promotion activities in the main schools 
and universities in the area. We   are also expanding conciliation and flexibility 
measures (84% of fathers took advantage of parental leave in 2019). . The 
number of women at governance level increased, reaching 42%. We hired 
62% more women than in 2018, with a consequent improvement in the 
diversity rate, which increased from 21% to 23%. In addition, we provided more 
than 20.000 hours of training, largely focussed on the issue of occupational 
health and safety. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  9 