Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
Transparent Marketing and Communication  
{GRI 102-43; GRI 417-1; GRI 417-2; GRI 417-3; ALP 8} 
  
 
Risk management 
 
   
Risk  Management Approach 
 
   
Risk of inadequate or no information transparency  We are committed to implementing transparent, up-to-date and 
and communication that is not stakeholder oriented  stakeholder-oriented marketing and internal communication. We 
(e.g. communication of the group’s environmental  provide consistent information through our various media channels 
and social performance, extended website content,  (e.g. energy points, call centres). In 2019, we began to introduce 
round tables, stakeholder surveys) with a possible  CRM – Customer Relationship Management, focussing on lead 
impact  on  customer  satisfaction/increased  management. 
complaints, customer loss or non-compliance with   
provisions and codes of conduct 
   
Risk  of  failure/non-definition  of  motivational  We want increasing numbers of customers to take up paperless 
measures for customers to increase the number of  billing. We are promoting this choice through consumer behaviour 
customers receiving paperless bills  activities to stimulate the take-up of green products. 
   
Risk  of  procuring  unsustainable  advertising  We want to make our marketing and communication initiatives 
material  socially and economically sustainable. For this reason, all our 
events are certified Green Events. 
 
 
 
To ensure an open and transparent dialogue with stakeholders, Alperia developed numerous marketing and 
communication activities during 2019. The most important include: 
 
-  Press and online: Announcements, PR articles, customer website (www.alperia.eu) and institutional 
website (www.alperiagroup.eu), social media, online portal and customer apps. During the year, in 
total there were 1.936 print and online articles relating to Alperia, of which 1.343 were in the local 
press, 572 in the national press and 21 in the international press. These articles covered important 
Alperia events (e.g. mergers and new acquisitions). Only two were negative in tone. This coverage 
related to complex situations for Gruppo Green Power (Striscia la Notizia, covered on page 16), and 
PVB Power Bulgaria (covered on page 16). Alperia responded quickly with press releases and 
interviews to clarify the situations. All emissions resulting from the www.alperia.eu website and the 
group’s websites were offset. In fact, Alperia takes part in the CO  Neutral Websites climate initiative. 
2
The initiative aims to neutralise carbon-dioxide emissions of both websites and users, through setting 
up new projects based on renewable energy, CO  reduction projects and purchasing of CO  offsetting 
2 2
certificates. 
 
-  Energy Points: Energy Point activities continue with qualified consultants and call-centre staff, 
brochures, information leaflets and TV channels in waiting rooms 
 
 
-  Events and Sponsorships: Alperia has organised numerous Open Days and Green Events. The 
company has also sponsored events in the sports, culture, environment and safety sectors. The Open 
Days organised for the Bolzano and Cardano plants attracted hundreds of visitors of all ages. 
 
 
-  Surveys: Alperia also conducted a survey on brand perception in 2019. The survey revealed that 
93,4% of the population of South Tyrol knew about the Alperia brand. In 2018, a customer survey was 
conducted, confirming an 87,2% customer satisfaction level. This survey is conducted every two years 
and will be repeated in 2020. 
 
 
-  Information evenings: Alperia organised an early evening presentation for new Smart Meters and 
put together a communication plan for the municipalities where they were to be installed.  
 
  81 