Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
-  In the third quarter of 2019, there was a slight increase in the cost of electricity, with a change in overall 
spending of +1,9% compared to the previous quarter. The cost of natural gas fell again, with a change 
in overall spending of –6,9% compared to the previous quarter. 
-  In the fourth quarter of 2019, there was an increase in the cost of electricity, with a change in overall 
spending of +2,6% compared to the previous quarter. Similarly, the cost of natural gas also rose, with 
a change in overall spending of +3,9% compared to the previous quarter. 
 
In relation to natural gas prices, the annual quote on the PSV reversed the trend of the previous two years and 
fell to €16,28/MWh, down by more than €8/MWh compared to 2018 and just above the historic low in 2016 
(€15,85/MWh), in line with the trends recorded by the main European bodies of reference. 
The drop in electricity and gas prices during 2019, a trend we expect to see continue in 2020, was caused by 
a number of factors, including a slowdown in global growth (partially resulting from a US/China tariff war), an 
agreement between Russia and Ukraine that stabilised gas prices and reduced uncertainty around French 
nuclear power. Supply of raw materials remains significantly higher than demand, leading to a fall in prices. 
Mild temperatures in the second half of the year also reduced demand for gas, which Italy sources mainly from 
the USA, Russia, the Middle East and Northern Europe. On the other hand, there was a significant increase 
in renewable sources, hydroelectric power in particular, due to heavy snowfall in the previous autumn. 
 
In June 2019, the Capacity Market decree was approved, followed by tendering for 2022–2023. With the 
changes to the capacity market regulations endorsed by the European Commission, it is possible to integrate 
new environmental emission requirements for operators into the system, to prepare for implementation of the 
new European standards for decarbonisation adopted within the framework of the Clean Energy Package for 
All Europeans. This is considered to be an essential tool in making electricity markets more efficient, opening 
them to renewable sources and increasingly integrating them at the European level.  
 
Again in 2019, the integrated text on electricity market dispatching was published. This document lays down 
the plans for a radical change in the Italian electricity market infrastructure. The main action lines for developing 
the new dispatching services market are identified and the steps to complete the integration of Italian markets 
with those of other European countries. 
 
According to ARERA, the indicators for 2020 are that electricity bills will begin to fall, and gas bills will be 
substantially stable. The sharp fall in general charges, containment of regulated network tariffs (transport and 
distribution) and low raw-material prices on wholesale markets will bring a 5,4% reduction for electricity and a 
slight adjustment for gas, +0,8% for the average household. These numbers translate into average household 
spending of €544,20 for electricity (–2,9% per year) and €1.040 for gas (–9,5%). This amounts to a total saving 
of €125 on an annual basis compared to 2019 (€109 on gas and €16 on electricity)9. 
 
Domestic tariff reform set out by the authority in implementation of Legislative Decree 102/14 was also 
completed. It removed progressive tariffs for network services (transmission and distribution), in compliance 
with sustainable environmental objectives and to align the tariff structure with service costs. The completion of 
this reform means the spread of more efficient electrotechnology solutions, such as heat pumps, induction 
hobs and electric vehicles, will no longer be penalised. In the same context, incentives to change the power of 
electricity meters, offering reduced costs, have also been extended to 2020.10  
 
The data is provided by the Italian Regulatory Authority for Energy, Networks and Environment (ARERA). 
ARERA, an independent body that regulates and controls the electricity and gas sector to protect consumer 
interests, updates the valid energy prices for customers every three months. Alperia’s family packages are 
based on these prices. Expenditure includes the price of energy and the sales and marketing components. 
For electricity to actually reach the customer, a fee must be paid to the operator for the use of the distribution 
networks. This includes transport, distribution and metering costs. The system charges are set by law, and are 
designed to cover the costs of activities in the public interest; these include research and development, the 
decommissioning of nuclear power plants and the promotion of renewable energies. Taxes consist of excise 
duty and value-added tax (VAT). VAT is currently levied at 10% on domestic customers and at 22% on non-
domestic customers.  
 
 
 
 
                                                
9 https://www.arera.it/it/com_stampa/19/191227agg.htm  
10 https://www.arera.it/allegati/schede/191227st.pdf  
  83 