Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
The last decade  
In the period from 2007 to 2018, global energy consumption increased by over 2 billion tonnes of oil 
equivalent (toe) – from 12toe in 2007 to 14,3toe in 2018 – with an average annual growth rate of 1,6%. Fossil 
sources remained central and did not fall below 80% of the energy mix in that period (2007–2018). However, 
the power ratios are changing. Coal is the source most affected by climate policies and will lose ground, 
reaching a low of 21% of the energy mix by 2040. Even oil, while maintaining its leadership, will follow a 
decreasing trend, in part due to the demand for electric mobility and motoring efficiency; natural gas is the 
only fossil source to maintain growth, representing a quarter of energy consumption by 2040. Renewables 
will see constant growth, mainly driven by the diffusion of photovoltaic solar in electricity generation. The 
WEO World Energy Outlook 2019 predicts renewable energy sources (including solid biomass) will meet 
21% of the world’s energy demands by 2040, equalling the share of coal. However, these figures are not 
considered  sufficient  to  guarantee  achievement  of  the  climate  objectives  envisaged  by  sustainable 
development (source: GME newsletter, December 2019). 
 
 
Sponsorship {GRI 102-12}  
 
In 2019, Alperia supported South Tyrolean projects and organisations in the fields of sport (youth and popular 
sports and professional sports associations), culture (music, theatre and dance), environmental protection and 
safety.  All  sponsorship  is  in  full  compliance  with  the  guidelines  published  on  the  company  website 
(www.alperiagroup.eu). Applications for sponsorship must be made through the online portal. After checking 
that the documentation is correct and that the required conditions have been met, applications are submitted 
to Alperia SpA’s Management Board, which decides whether to accept or reject the application and, if 
accepted, the amount of sponsorship. As a result of sponsorships, Alperia was the most recognised South 
Tyrolean brand in the sports sector for the first time in 2019.  
 
Communicating the value of sustainability  
 
Many of Alperia’s 2019 communication and marketing activities focused on promoting sustainable products 
and services. Alperia intends to focus more on green-gas and green-energy products in the coming years, 
implementing a communications strategy to highlight their importance. The goal is to significantly increase the 
number of companies that completely adopt green energy and gas. The climate-neutral nature of Alperia’s 
green gas is officially confirmed year by year by TÜV NORD, a renowned independent certification body. 
  
Alperia customers are therefore guaranteed that all greenhouse gas emissions generated are offset by a 
certified climate-protection project. Specifically, Alperia offset 34 tonnes of CO in 2019. ACT Commodities 
2 
B.V. – a world leader in the trade of raw energy materials, with particular reference to energy-efficiency 
certificates, certificates for renewable energies and carbon emissions quotas – took out 34 GS VERs (GS1230) 
on behalf of Alperia Smart Services Srl. On 6 November 2019. They were taken out on the Gold Standard 
platform with the serial number GS1-1-TR-GS1230-12-2016-6483-367-400. 
 
In addition, during 2019, Alperia carried out numerous communications initiatives for Bolzano residents to 
inform them about the district-heating expansion, a particularly ecological and sustainable form of heating. 
This included condominium meetings and editorial articles. Next year the campaign will also include one-to-
one meetings.  
 
Also in its internal communication, Alperia intends to focus on the values of sustainability, involving employees 
to ensure everyone understands how important the green heart of the company is. It will also be the central 
theme of the next business plan.  
 
Green Events {GRI 102-12}  
 
All the events organised by Alperia are certified Green Events. The Autonomous Province of Bolzano Waste 
Management Office gives this certification only where the planning, organisation and implementation of the 
events is carried out in line with sustainable criteria. The assessed criteria include use of ecological products, 
energy efficiency, waste management, promotion of local products and social responsibility. To be a Green 
Event, more than half of the criteria required by the plan must be adopted. This is an additional tool with which 
Alperia contributes to the long-term climate strategy defined by South Tyrol’s province government to reduce 
annual CO  emissions per capita to below 4 t by 2020, and to below 1,5 t by 2050. For an event to be certified 
2
green, suppliers must be fully involved and must commit themselves to adopting sustainable solutions in terms 
of  resources,  waste, mobility, catering,  energy,  communication,  acoustics  and  ancillary  areas  (alcohol 
  84 