Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
consumption and taking down of barriers). In 2019, Alperia held four Green Events, including Open Days 
organised at: 
 
-  Cardano: More than 200 students visited the Alperia hydroelectric power station in Cardano on World 
Environment Day, 5 June 2019. Equipped with safety helmets, the students took guided tours and a 
virtual journey through the impressive Martello Dam. The event was organised for German and Italian 
middle schools in collaboration with the South Tyrol Ökoinstitut; the goal was to provide information 
on sustainable hydroelectric exploitation, the water cycle and the history of the plant. There were 
interactive games and quizzes on energy, in addition to other activities. Students were made aware of 
how energy is wasted through a series of experiments, such as making popcorn with a solar cooker 
or playing music on an electric bicycle. Latest generation e-bikes were also made available for test 
rides; drinks were offered in glass bottles, avoiding the use of plastic. 
 
-  Bolzano: On 22 September 2019, hundreds of people took part in the Open Day organised at the 
district heating plant on Bolzano Bike Day 2019. The guided plant visits were managed by Alperia 
Ecoplus and allowed visitors to see the capital’s district-heating system in operation and get close up 
to its storage tank. They were also given information on network-expansion projects. More than 300 
people took the opportunity to get there by bike, thanks to the cooperation of the Province of Bolzano 
mobility office, which completely closes the city to traffic twice a year. Alperia rented electric bicycles, 
thereby helping to reduce CO  emissions and improve air quality for a day. Participants visited the 
2
plant in groups of 20 and received brochures printed on FCS paper with a climate-neutral sign. In 
addition, at the plant entrance, apples were offered as a snack in cooperation with VOG, thereby 
promoting local and seasonal products. Visitors also took part in various sports activities organised in 
the main square in collaboration with the Sportcity association and STS Volleyball. 
 
 
-  Sesto: On 1 June 2019, the local district heating plant opened its doors to numerous visitors, with 
guided tours led by specialised staff. This offered visitors an overview of how the plant’s heat is 
produced mainly using locally supplied wood chips. There was also an entertainment corner for 
children, with ecological games from Kinderfreunde Südtirols. The goal was to raise awareness about 
using recyclable materials, even among small children. Catering, organised by the Drei Zinnen sports 
association, was based on Kilometre Zero products served on cardboard plates with wooden cutlery. 
Participants could also make an optional contribution to the association in addition to that made by 
Alperia Ecoplus. All waste from the event was processed using differentiated waste management.  
 
 
-  Bressanone:  On  Saturday  29  June  an  Open  Day was  organised  at  the  Bressanone  plant  in 
cooperation with the South Tyrol Jazz Festival. To encourage sustainable mobility, Alperia provided a 
free shuttle to take visitors from Bolzano to the plant. Fifty people took the shuttle, reducing the use of 
polluting vehicles, while a total of 100 people attended the event. At the plant entrance, the measures 
that made it a Green Event were highlighted, to raise awareness with both visitors and initiative 
partners. Catering was sourced regionally, featuring appetisers and finger food that require no plates. 
Waste was also kept to a minimum and processed using differentiated waste management. 
 
 
Alperia also partnered with Klimamobility at South Tyrol’s main conference on sustainable mobility, in which 
CEO Johann Wohlfarter took part. The meeting focused on the future possibilities for mobility technology and 
the key role it plays for urban development. This was a theme to which Alperia brought its extensive 
experience, having long worked on sustainable mobility and pollution-free cities. 
 
 
   
  85 