Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
Cyber Security {GRI 418-1}  
 
 
Risk management 
   
   
Risk  Management Approach 
 
   
Risk of non-compliance with privacy law provisions in  We want to guarantee compliance with privacy regulations, 
relation to the protection of sensitive data.  which  is  why  we  continuously  monitor  security  systems, 
  updating them on an ongoing basis to ensure they are the most 
up to date and we have implemented all measures envisaged 
by the GDPR. 
 
Risk  of  security  incidents  and  failure  to  manage  We want to guarantee that all data is protected from security 
information, as well as failure to protect sensitive data  incidents and guarantee Business Continuity in case of IT 
and  intellectual  property  due  to  the  infrastructure  incidents (e.g. server failures, power outages). For this reason, 
inadequacy with possible data loss or disclosure. Risk  we use efficient protection systems against internal and external 
of  possible  OTT  infrastructure  malfunctions  with  attacks  and  incursions.  We  also  renewed  our  ISO 27001 
possible impact on the service delivery continuity due  certification  and  developed business  continuity  plans  (INS-
to  the  failure/inadequate  development  of  IT  212.01 Business Continuity – Disaster Recovery IT). 
infrastructure and preparation of emergency plans. 
 
 
According to the World Economic Forum’s Global Risks Report 2020, cyber-attacks are ranked sixth among 
the risks with most impact for the coming years. For this reason, Alperia, which as an energy service provider 
manages a large amount of data (including the personal data of customers, collaborators and partners, 
technical data relating to customer consumption, distribution infrastructure, electricity and heat production 
plants), has adopted a solid defence strategy. Controlling access to information and its correct management 
in terms of confidentiality, privacy and consistency will be increasingly important.  
 
Cyber security is dealt with by a dedicated structure that defines and supervises cyber security architectures 
and systems, deals with identity management and access control systems and intervenes in the event of any 
attacks.  
 
In 2019, new and better performing management systems both inside and outside the Alperia world were 
introduced, also including Artificial Intelligence (AI) platforms. Attacks are becoming more frequent and high 
risk. Most are perpetrated by extremely sophisticated AI software, which is why it is necessary to use the same 
language in defence. In 2019, Alperia did not suffer from any significant cyber security incidents, but is aware 
of how important it is to protect yourself with increasingly sophisticated barrier systems. This is why we have 
introduced a double layer antivirus system for email and all the documents are classified according to a specific 
confidentiality level (public, restricted, confidential). Updating activities continue with trials of the disaster 
recovery plan and adoption of protection systems against ransomware threats.  
 
In 2019, we also renewed the ISO 27001 certification, which was extended to include even more stringent 
checking. This international standard recognises the group’s adoption of a secure system for the management 
of company information systems (IT and documentary), to monitor and reduce management costs, ensure 
adequate service levels and monitor and reduce the risk of possible outages. The certification is subject to an 
annual audit, with additional checks carried out by the group’s Internal Audit.  
 
During 2019, the business continuity plan was also developed to be activated in the event of attacks. In 
compliance with the requirements of Europe’s GDPR regulation, a Data Protection Officer (DPO) was 
appointed external to the IT department. A new privacy-by-design procedure was developed, to be carried out 
at the start of each new project in order to check if it meets the standards set by privacy and GDPR legislation.  
 
Technological innovation is accompanied by training. After activities involving the IT team, a training course 
on cyber security will be launched in 2020 for all employees, in order to raise awareness of cyber risks. More 
often than not, critical issues can in fact be traced back to human error. To remain up to date, Alperia plays an 
active role in important associations such as CLUSIT (Italian Association for IT Security); it has also taken part 
in specialised security events such as the ITASEC (Italian Conference of Cybersecurity). 
 
 
  88 