Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
for all group structures. The key processes to be harmonised include planning, purchasing, budgeting and 
controlling. Billing systems will also be reviewed between 2020 and 2021, with a distinction made between 
commodities (which will undergo a total revision in billing) and non-commodities. Two other areas dedicated 
to data analysis and its integration will follow. Monitoring dashboards will be put in place to analyse data and 
produce clear and effective end-reports. This data will be checked and integrated into processes through a 
new interface system.  
 
In addition, Alperia began to conduct surveys on the condition of assets in 2019. This will continue throughout 
2020, with the aim of defining a series of gradually built-up data, which will be used to set up predictive 
maintenance processes. Cognitive analysis, machine learning and data-mining processes are used to detect 
anomalies that could cause imminent faults in plants and machinery. All this will reduce labour costs and limit 
loss of production time from faults, as well as increase efficiency and safety.  
 
At the same time, a series of activity-related working-method changes were developed with an increasing 
focus on remote working. A census was taken of all company PCs, key drives, mobile phones and tablets and 
support applications were created in the cloud. Currently, software solutions are being tested by some user 
groups to check their usability, before they are extended to all employees.  
 
Fleet cars will also see changes, with black boxes installed that record information in order to make fleet 
management easier and timelier.  
 
All these changes require a change in corporate language and ways of working; it is therefore essential that 
staff be adequately trained. This training began in 2019 with several digital-transformation and change-
management days; it will continue in 2020. The objective is to develop an innovative common culture, ensuring 
everyone that works at Alperia is aware of the benefits of digitisation at a professional and social level.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  90 