Alperia Sustainability Report 2019 
Employee Development {GRI 102-8; GRI 401-1}  
 
Risk management 
   
   
Risk  Management Approach 
 
   
Risk of inadequate implementation of staff training  We  have  created  individual  career-development  plans for  our 
plans for the development of specific skills (e.g.  employees and organise specific internal and e-learning courses 
development plans for management, high-potential  according to needs (e.g. workplace safety, change management, 
programme, digital skills, e-learning courses)  cyber security, etc.).  
 
 
Risk of inadequate group level human resources  We want to ensure the presence of and compliance with group-wide 
policies and procedures with potential impact on  policies and procedures for the recruitment, management and 
recruitment, management and development  development of staff. To achieve this, we apply the measures 
required by the 231 Model, pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/01 
(segregation of duties, powers of attorney and proxies, traceability, 
objective definition and selection, performance measurement, etc.). 
 
Risk of non-compliance in relation to staff-training  We want to ensure compliance with regulatory obligations relating 
activities  ensuring  compliance  with  specific  to staff training, updating training plans in accordance with the 
regulatory  requirements  (e.g.  SSL,  Legislative  quality system and monitoring their actual performance in the area 
Decree 231/01)  of compliance (e.g. SSL, Legislative Decree 231/01). 
 
Risk  of  employee  dissatisfaction  leading  to  We want to increase our employee satisfaction. For this reason, we 
potential  inefficiency  in  the  management  of  carry out periodic surveys, including in consultation with external 
company activities  bodies (e.g. Great Place to Work® Institute Italia). The 2019 survey 
showed a 50% satisfaction rate and therefore an increase of 9 
points compared to the survey carried out in 2016. 
 
Risk of inadequate definition of retention measures  We want to create a stable and efficient company that has long-
and new recruitment planning to replace retiring  term economic success and is capable of consistently addressing 
key staff with a potential impact from loss of know- the retirement plans of its key staff. To do this we have taken the 
how, expertise and highly specialised technical  following measures: 
operators  -  We carry out promotional activities at the main schools and 
universities in the area to attract young talent, in particular 
in the technical professions. 
-  We  launched  the  Talent  project,  which  identifies 
employees with growth potential among internal staff. 
-  We continue to create career-development plans for Pillar 
employees who want to get involved and who have the 
skills Alperia needs. 
 
Risk of conflicting relationships between parties  We establish relationships with employees and their respective 
with the consequent impossibility of developing  unions  based  on  dialogue,  limiting  conflict  and  generating 
effective personnel policies  development opportunities in the mutual interest of all parties. 
 
Risk of lack of motivational systems (e.g. team  We want to establish a culture of transparent communication to 
building) for employees, with potential inefficiencies  avoid  potential  inefficiencies  in  the  management  of  company 
in the management of company activities due to the  activities. We do this with motivational and team-building activities, 
lack of dissemination of a communication culture to  for which we have allocated a budget of €50/year per person; 
ensure  performance  feedback  and  internal  training and career-development activities are also important.  
awareness through targeted workshops 
 
 
Alperia Group employs 1.017 people in all areas of the energy sector: power generation in hydroelectric power 
plants, electricity distribution, district heating network management, energy sales and customer service, 
electric mobility, ultrabroadband network and management. Ninety-four percent of the group’s employees are 
hired on permanent contracts and 90% are full time; these numbers are in line with the previous year. There 
were 75 new recruits during the year, including 21 women. The new recruitment rate is therefore +7%. 
 
 
 
 
  94 