 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 5 ▪ People 
guaranteed and promoted in all areas of the  47% are over 50 years of age, while approx.  monitoring of growth trajectories and the 
organisation,  implementing  management  5% are below 30 years of age.   design of coherent training programmes. 
policies  aimed  at  guaranteeing  a  fair 
Within the Group, 197 people belonging to  Recruiting policies26  
assessment of people already in the selection 
protected  categories  are  employed  in 
phase,  constantly  monitoring  growth 
The Group has always enjoyed great visibility 
various corporate roles, with an essentially 
trajectories and designing professional and 
on  the  job  market  and  attractiveness,  as 
equal distribution between men and women. 
managerial  training  courses  aimed  at 
demonstrated by around 24,000 unsolicited 
These represent about 4% of employees. 
developing  distinctive  behaviours.  These 
applications received through the Working 
initiatives enhance and recognise the wealth 
  with Us section of the corporate website, 
deriving from diversity, promote integration 
which was revamped in 2016 with links to the 
and  are  an  integral  part  of  the  Group's 
5.3  PEOPLE MANAGEMENT,  websites of Group companies. 
culture. 
ATTRACTION AND 
In  parallel,  the  use  of  modern  digital 
The data presented provides a traditional  DEVELOPMENT  recruiting tools and relationships with the 
breakdown  of  employees  by  the  various 
leading  recruitment  companies  make  it 
professional  categories,  including  that  of  The  commitment  and  motivation  of 
possible to actively seek and identify the best 
"Journalists",  typical  of  the  particular  employees are fundamental elements for the 
profiles on the market in relation to specific 
business.  Around  63%  of  the  Group's  Group's success. To this end, opportunities 
needs. 
employees  belong  to  the  white  collar  for  professional  growth  are  continually 
category, in keeping with the 2018 figures,  offered,  exploiting  the  diversity  of  origin,  Finally, the Group's constant and continuous 
with a balanced gender distribution.   experience and competence.   collaboration  with  the  leading  Italian  and 
Spanish  universities  makes  it  possible  to 
As  can  be  seen  from  the  tables  above,  Internal  company  processes  are  aimed  at 
contribute  to  the  educational  offering  of 
approx.  48%  of  Group  employees  are  ensuring a correct assessment of employees 
numerous  degree  and  master's  courses, 
between 30 and 50 years of age, approx.  starting from both the selection phase and 
through  the  many  lectures  and  company 
that  of  subsequent  professional  and 
testimonies in the classroom by its managers 
managerial development, through constant 
                                                        
26 Recruitment by the various Group companies, in Italy and abroad, is regulated by specific protocols drawn up in line with the Group's policies, in compliance with the provisions of Legislative Decree 231/01. These procedures 
also take into account the local legislation to which Group Companies are subjected, including provisions concerning termination of employment and provisions and regulations for specific remuneration treatment for "expats" 
in the event of secondment of personnel abroad. 
102 