 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 5 ▪ People 
•  Stress resistance / emotional stability -  the welcome and induction plan to tutoring 
ability to react positively to work pressure  and coaching.  
while  maintaining  control,  remaining 
In 2019, 94 people were recruited with open-
focused on priorities and not transferring 
ended contracts in the Mediaset Group in 
one's  tensions  to  others.  Ability  to 
Italy, in keeping with the previous year. The 
overcome defeats and failures; attention 
new recruits entered the Digital, Technology 
to the way in which one's emotions are 
and  Advertising  Sales  areas  in  particular, 
managed  and  impulses  controlled  in 
where it was deemed necessary to facilitate 
difficult situations; 
the entry of new specific skills, as well as in 
•  Self-confidence  -  awareness  of  one's  the  Operations  area,  where  a  major 
value, of one's abilities and of one's ideas  generational transition is underway. 
irrespective of the opinions of others; 
58% of those recruited in the year are aged 
•  Problem  solving  –  ability  to  devise  between 30 and 50 and 37% are less than 30 
alternative  solutions  to  a  problem,  years  old.  As  at  31/12/2019  specifically, 
estimating  the  implications  for  the  around 24% of personnel under 30 were new 
expected results. This is the tendency to  recruits. 
provide concrete solutions that optimise 
activities in response to the constraints  There  was  also  the  opportunity  for  289 
present;  young  people  to  have  an  internship 
experience in Italy lasting around 4.5 months 
•  Life-long learning – recognition of one's 
on average.  
deficiencies and areas of improvement, 
taking  action  to  acquire  and  further  In  2019,  there  was  a  recruitment  rate  of 
improve knowledge and skills.  approx. 3% in Italy and approx. 4% in Spain, 
where 26 people were recruited below 30 
In  order  to  guarantee  new  recruits  an 
years of age.  
effective start-up of their work activity, the 
departments involved supervise all phases in 
the resource’s induction, from activation of 
104 