 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 5 ▪ People 
young graduates. In keeping with training  and demand for innovation and flexibility.  courses were designed for new recruits 
objectives  of  continuous  development  An initiative was also launched for new  and  those  in  specific  roles  in 
and consolidation of management skills,  senior managers in collaboration with the  broadcasting, including internal teaching. 
cross-sectional  projects  were  launched  Politecnico di Milano business school. The  Their aim was to share knowledge about 
for  company  middle  managers  around  managers took part in a series of five  the logic and development of television 
communication  and  team  management  seminars  spread  over  the  year  which  products and they were directed towards 
skills  which  aim  to  make  people  aimed  to  support  the  enhancement  of  producing  manuals  describing  some 
increasingly  aware  of  their  own  specific  professional  and  management  specific  processes  connected  to  the 
communicative  and  interpersonal  skills. In light of particular requirements in  production  sector.      Language  skills 
potential,  with  confidence  about  their  specific areas, some projects were run  training  continued  with  dedicated 
own  personal  growth.  Two  dedicated  involving  entire  teams,  connected  with  blended courses involving the use of a 
projects were provided for a large number  teamwork and team building. The aim was  dedicated  online  portal  with  digital 
of Advertising Sales personnel. One was  to  re-establish  or  consolidate  work  teaching  materials,  exercises  and 
on  the  development  of  Sales  processes as well as relationships within  telephone lessons. A further online portal 
Performance, with a view to offering more  the group.  was also introduced for senior managers 
tools  for  defining  sales  strategy  and  offering the possibility of remote video 
•  With  regard  to  professional  activities, 
improving  personal  effectiveness  in  lessons  with  teachers  who  are  native 
initiatives to develop technological skills 
dealing with customers. The other aimed  speakers, also with a view to spreading 
were undertaken, with the aim of enabling 
to boost and refine ability in creating and  the use of modern digital training tools. 
people  to  use  the  new  work  tools 
communicating  content  in  advertising  Finally, there were activities connected to 
effectively.  Various  projects  were 
product presentations. Senior managers  developing  project  management  skills 
launched in connection with the need to 
were involved in an innovative project to  due to the requirements arising from the 
use graphics and editing software. This is 
combine  modern  discoveries  in  many ongoing tech projects. 
an  area  where  personnel  required 
neuroscience  with  some  specific 
upskilling  or  reskilling.  Courses  ran  in  •  With regard to statutory compliance, the 
leadership  issues.  The  content  of  the 
parallel to keep personnel up to date and  initiatives envisaged by legislation were 
project met the need to offer new ideas 
informed  on  specialised  matters  in  carried  out,  paying  attention  to  the 
and  ways  of  understanding  managerial 
individual areas, with special attention to  specific  issues  of  the  company.  In 
conduct at a time when it’s important to 
those that require constant adaptation to  particular, Health and Safety training was 
know how to deal with complex situations 
external  situations  or  legislation.  Two  delivered for new recruits and people with 
107 