 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 5 ▪ People 
•   almost all personnel involved  programme.  Finally,  all  employees  can  Given the strategic role of innovation, the 
access this documentation at any time on the  training plan dedicates more than 20% of 
In 2019, training on issues related to human  company intranet.  training hours to IT courses and the use of 
rights  involved,  throughout  the  Mediaset  new  software.  In  continuity  with  previous 
For 2019 overall, the Group provided around 
Group, 3,154 people in Italy and 6,600 hours  years, the Mediaset Group in Spain offers 
49,973  hours  of  training,  an  increase  of 
of training were delivered.  language and occupational risk prevention 
approximately 3% with respect to 2018. 
courses. Finally, 2019 saw the ninth edition of 
Furthermore, in 2019, ad hoc training on anti-
the Master's in Audiovisual Content, with 16 
corruption practices was provided in Italy to  People training and talent management are 
students  taking  part  and  three  of  these 
the  corporate  structures  considered  most  critical elements for the corporate strategy 
recruited by the Group. 
sensitive to risk. Over the year, 3,140 people  of the Mediaset Group in Spain since they 
in Italy were involved, to complete a wide- allow  a  rapid  adaptation  to  the  dynamic  An agreement was also signed in 2019 with 
ranging project that began in 2017.   needs  of  the  environment  in  which  it  the CES School (image and sound studies 
operates.  
secondary school) to enable an internship 
In  2019,  the  Mediaset  Group  in  Spain 
programme for students within the Mediaset 
More  than  15,800  hours  of  training  were 
provided training on human rights, freedom 
Group.  
of expression and intellectual property to 8  provided in the course of 2019. Among the 
people and 230 people for anti-corruption  main  initiatives  were  training  courses  on     
accidents and risk prevention with respect to 
issues.  
health  and  safety,  training  courses  on 
On issues related to regulatory compliance,  leadership  development  programmes, 
and in particular on the subject of training  coaching  for  senior  managers  and 
and  information  on  the  Organisation,  managerial development courses dedicated 
Management and Control Model established  exclusively to female personnel. Of particular 
pursuant to Legislative Decree 231, privacy  note in 2019 are the Master's in the creation 
and  security,  specific  training,  usually  and management of Audiovisual Content and 
through an online method, is provided upon  the Digital Marketing and Digital Advertising 
recruitment of personnel. New recruits are  Sales courses.  
also informed on how to consult the Code of 
Ethics  of  the  Group  and  the  compliance 
110 