 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 5 ▪ People 
headquarters  with  a  more  functional  As in the previous year, in 2019 Mediaset took  illness, as well as company cars depending on 
approach with respect to the use of work  part  in  the  WHP  (Workplace  Health  the role held, are also envisaged.  
spaces and integration of company areas.  Promotion)  programme  promoted  by  the 
We would highlight the 2019 renewal of the 
With this in mind, an agreement was reached  Lombardy  Region,  allowing  the  Group  to 
employee  and  family  member  healthcare 
with the Municipality of Cologno Monzese,  obtain  the  workplace  health  promotion 
policy for 2020-2022 with improved services 
which  transferred  Via  Cinelandia  to  the  (ENWHP)  certificate  thanks  to  all  the 
and reimbursement of healthcare expenses. 
Group  in  exchange  for  redevelopment  of  initiatives listed above. 
Viale  Europa,  which  the  Mediaset 
The Mediaset Group in Spain looks after its 
Benefits 
headquarters overlook. 
employees by guaranteeing a wide range of 
The benefits envisaged for Mediaset Group  benefits aimed at facilitating a better balance 
The Group safeguards maternity and return 
employees  in  Italy  are  mainly  of  a  social  between work and private life. These benefits 
to work after the birth of children thanks to 
security  and  welfare  nature.  For  all  range  from  the  possibility  of  using  a 
an  important  corporate  initiative,  the 
employees there is a supplementary health  company  shuttle  or  free  parking  at  the 
Nursery,  which,  since  2004,  can 
care plan, 24-hour accident insurance policy  workplace, to the company canteen, which 
accommodate the children of employees up 
and the supplementary pension fund. The  benefits all workers, and health insurances 
to 3 years of age; this solution allows parents 
company also guarantees integration of the  for spouses and children (up to 25 years) and 
to  entrust  their  children  to  specialised 
statutory  remuneration  provided  for  mandatory and/or optional medical check-
educators, at the workplace, during working 
maternity for all its employees. For senior  ups. 
hours, avoiding the need for employees to 
managers, in addition to these benefits, life 
sacrifice time and money on the care and 
There are also one-time bonuses linked to the 
and permanent disability insurance due to 
custody of their children during the daytime. 
Company's results.  
Working hours 
The  Group  has  always  identified  and 
implemented specific tools that facilitate the 
reconciliation of time dedicated to private 
and  professional  life,  facilitating  the 
  equilibrium between demand and supply of 
flexibility in the workplace, in line with the 
112 