 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 5 ▪ People 
5.5  INDUSTRIAL  Service  Industries  and  for  Engineering  possible,  improves  any  contractual 
Workers;  and  for  Journalists,  the  FNSI  provisions. 
RELATIONS 
National  Collective  Journalists  Bargaining 
An agreement was reached in 2018 with the 
The Mediaset Group has established and built  Agreement.  In  addition,  a  Supplementary 
Italian  trade  unions  to  renew  the 
a  consolidated  and  effective  system  of  Company  Agreement  applied  to  Middle 
supplementary company agreement applied 
industrial  and  trade  union  relations  at  all  Managers and White-Collar Workers and a 
to  Middle  Managers  and  White-Collar 
levels of representation.  Supplementary  Company  Agreement 
Workers  in  the  broadcasting  area  of  the 
applied to Journalist staff that regulate and 
The topics typically subject to discussion and  improve on the conditions provided for by  Group.  In  particular,  this  agreement 
disclosure consist  of work organisation in  the  national  agreements  have  been  introduced  new  provisions  on  the 
terms  of  jobs,  levels  and  processes,  the  historically in force for the television area of  classification of personnel (introducing new 
operating performance of the company, the  the Group.  professional figures to match technological 
evolution  of  the  workforce  and  training  development) and working hours (redefined 
issues,  as  well  as  the  evolution  of  the  Specific provisions that further regulate and  for flexibility and greater simplicity) for a 
business.  detail working conditions, working hours and  more  competitive  model  of  production. 
ad  hoc  technical-production  models  for  Dedicated  Bilateral  Committees  were  also 
The companies in the Mediaset Group apply  individual companies are usually managed  established  for  meetings  and  exchange 
the relevant National Collective Agreements  via  agreements  with  the  trade  union  concerning the addition of new professional 
or  Supplementary  Company  Agreements  representatives of the workers concerned.  figures  or  updating  of  existing  profiles, 
(AIA) to all of their employees, regulating all  welfare and any extraordinary projects that 
the  typical  situations  of  the  employment  The Group manages any structural changes  may affect the scope of the Group. Finally, to 
relationship.  In  particular,  for  Italian  to  the  organisational,  production  and  promote generational transition, the Group 
companies,  the  following  are  applied:  for  logistics  structure  that  have  a  material  undertook to bring in at least 100 new people 
Senior  Managers,  the  National  Collective  impact on the employment relationship with  during the effective period of the AIA. 
Bargaining  Agreement  for  Commercial  employees by following the union discussion 
Senior  Managers  and  for  Industrial  Senior  procedures governed by current legislation,  Finally, the agreement signed incorporates 
Managers; for Middle Managers and White- national collective agreements and company  the regulatory provisions established upon 
Collar  Workers,  the  National  Collective  agreements.  These  activities  aim  to  renewal of the National Private Radio and 
Bargaining Agreement for Private Radio and  guarantee a fruitful negotiation phase that  Television Work Contract (signed with the 
Television  Companies,  for  Commercial  limits  the  impact  on  workers  and,  where  Trade  Unions  in  December  2017  and 
114 