 
This document is the third consolidated non- offers  a  description  of  the  management  leading  operators  in  the  TMT  sector), 
financial  declaration  (hereinafter  models,  the  policies  implemented  by  the  monitoring of  the Group's main initiatives 
“Sustainability Report” or “Report”) issued  company,  the  results  obtained  and  the  and projects in these areas and the main 
by the Mediaset Group (also “Mediaset” or  principal  risks  -  generated  or  suffered  -  results  linked  to  feedback  from  the  main 
“Group”) describing the initiatives pursued  associated  with  the  issues  expressly  stakeholders. 
by the Group in the economic, social and  addressed  in  Art.  3  of  Decree  254 
The assessment carried out as part of the 
environmental  spheres  in  2019  (from  1  (environmental,  social,  labour  relations, 
2019  ERM  process  highlighted  the  overall 
January to 31 December) and their respective  respect for human rights, the fight against 
adequacy of the safeguards the Group has 
outcomes.  This  document  is  issued  in  corruption), including the way in which they 
employed, given the predominance of active 
compliance  with  Italian  legislation  are managed.  
and positive approaches to ESG issues, in 
(Legislative Decree of 30 December 2016, no. 
As  part  of  the  strategic  risk  assessment  keeping with its own values, which are a 
254,  hereinafter  “Decree  254”)  on  the 
model (conducted by the Risk Officer, with  reference as well as being instrumental in 
reporting of information of a non-financial 
the  support  of  a  leading  consultancy  pursuing its business objectives. 
nature, to which the Group is subject.  
company,  as  self-assessment  with  Group 
Of  particular  note:  the  consolidation  and 
The 2019 Sustainability Report was drawn up  management - ERM model), with structural 
focus  on  Human  Resources  development 
in  compliance  with  the  “Global  Reporting  focus on exogenous and internal risk factors 
initiatives  and  monitoring  of  the  overall 
Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards”  that  can  be  correlated  directly  with  its 
broadcast  offering,  also  with  respect  to 
defined by the Global  Reporting Initiative  business model and guidelines defined by the 
greater sensitivity on the part of end users 
(GRI) in 2016, in accordance with the  “in  Board of Directors, a process was launched 
and advertising investors to ESG issues. 
accordance – Core” option. With respect to  to assess ESG risk areas in keeping with their 
the specific GRI 403 (Occupational Health  materiality,  expressed  in  the  Group 
The  current  safeguards  do  not  highlight 
and  Safety)  Standard,  the  most  recent  Materiality Matrix. This assessment involved 
critical  situations  but  the  emergence  of 
version of 2018 was adopted. The “Media  an  initial  identification  of  material 
sought-after  opportunities  (launch  of 
Services Sector Disclosures” defined by the  risk/opportunity factors for each of the ESG 
assessments  of  initiatives  to  optimise 
GRI in 2014 were also taken into account.  areas. 
consumption and reduce emissions). 
The present document, taking into account  The corresponding risk profiles are assessed 
For future reporting, the Group will assess 
the  expectations  of  stakeholders  and  the  taking into account the  general reference 
supplementing  its  analysis –  and  thus  its 
impacts  generated  by  business  activities,  context (also in terms of benchmark with 
9 