 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 5 ▪ People 
The  Workers'  Health  &  Safety  Lastly,  the  Risk  Management  Department  accidents with a number of days' absence 
Representatives  (WSR)  represent  all  provides adequate insurance coverage for  greater than 70 (95, 112 and 172) according to 
workers.  business trips abroad. It should be noted that  INAIL,  and  they  occurred  outside  of  the 
no Mediaset Group employees are involved  company workplace and were not caused by 
In the case of critical events that may involve 
in activities with a high accident or health  work (road accidents, etc.). 
employees during business trips abroad, the 
risk31. 
"Personnel Abroad Security Committee" has  Occupational health and safety in Spain are 
been established, consisting of:  There are also specific clauses that cover  regulated  and  guaranteed  through  the 
health  and  safety  issues  in  contracts32  in  occupational risk prevention plan and the 
•  Central  Personnel  and  Organisation 
provisions  of  the  individual  national 
which the parties agree that the protection of 
Director  collective  agreements.  The  plan  is  jointly 
health and the physical integrity of workers is 
defined  by  the  Group  Health  and  Safety 
•  Safety Director  a  primary  and  constant  concern  for 
Committee and by the Prevention Service 
companies;  also,  with  regard  to  the 
•  Personnel Director  ("Servicio de Prevención Mancomunado" or 
occupational safety and health of workers, 
SPM),  which  is  then  approved  by  Human 
•  Company representative of the area to  express reference is made to the provisions 
Resources  and  Service  Management  and 
which the employee concerned belongs.  of Legislative Decree 81/2008, as amended 
finally presented to the Risk Officer.  
and supplemented.33 
In  order  to  guarantee  safe  working 
The  occupational  risk  prevention  plan 
conditions, in May 2013 the Mediaset Group  For 2019, confirming the Group's attention to 
ensures compliance of the company with the 
set up an "Operational Guideline" in order to  the  occupational  health  and  safety  of  its 
legislative provisions on the prevention of 
guarantee  the  safety  of  its  personnel  on  employees,  there  were  no  serious  injuries 
occupational risks and the requirements of 
business  trips  in  countries  or  areas  (duration of more than 6 months) nor cases 
OHSAS  18001:2007  for  the  prevention  of 
considered "at risk".   of occupational illness or cases of injuries for 
standard occupational risks.  
external  collaborators.  There  were  three 
                                                        
31 On 30 November 2018 (published on 5/12/2018) two Organisational Guidelines - O.G. MD/HO 105 and 106 -were issued, defining the organisational and operating models adopted by the Mediaset Group to manage any crisis 
situations (CRISIS Management Compliance Programme), in order to reduce negative impact on the business, limit damage to property and harm to persons and take advantage of any opportunities for the Group, contributing 
to improving company resilience and its value in time, also for the purposes of preventing the offences envisaged by Legislative Decree 231/2001 as amended. 
The O.G. states that the "Group's priority goal" is to safeguard life and health for all in the company (covering employees, external staff, suppliers, guests…), protecting the company's reputation, supporting business continuity 
in areas and processes considered critical for the business in various safety and security risk scenarios. 
32 Mention is made of Art. 20 - Protection of the health and physical integrity of the workers of the National Collective Bargaining Agreement of Employees of Private Radio and Television Companies, 
33 Art. 7 – Environment and Health of the Supplementary Agreement for Mediaset Group Companies. 
117 