 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 6 ▪ Community and Territory 
As  for  the  purchase  of  multi-year  Furthermore, Mediaset S.p.A. have joined the  compliance  with  current  legislation  and 
broadcasting  rights,  it  is  necessary  to  initiative  promoted  by  Assolombarda  regulations  governing  their  activity. 
underline  the  high  incidence  of  expenses  (extended to the main Italian companies of  Purchasing  processes  are  governed  by 
towards  the  main  American  majors  and  the Group), which started on 27 May 2014,  specific company procedures (OGs), which 
towards the holders of sports broadcasting  signing  up  to  the  Italian  Responsible  ensure the timely identification of suppliers 
rights in the total investments of the Group.  Payment Code, the first-ever code in Italy for  and the traceability of supply channels, which 
As can be seen from the tables, in 2019, about  responsible  payments.  In  taking  this  step,  thus  helps  guarantee  the  quality  and 
95% of Mediaset Group purchases of goods  Mediaset  has  committed  to  meeting  the  legitimacy  of  the  goods  and  services 
and  services  in  Italy  were  from  Italian  payment times agreed on with its suppliers  purchased.  
suppliers,  while  79%  of  Mediaset  Group  and in general  to promoting a culture  of 
Furthermore,  all  purchasing  processes  are 
purchases of goods and services in Spain  prompt, transparent payments. 
based  on  the  search  for  the  maximum 
were from Spanish suppliers. 
Mediaset is part of the first group of Italian  competitive  advantage  for  the  Mediaset 
and multinational companies founding the  Group as well as impartiality and the granting 
FAIRNESS IN SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS 
Code and, in compliance with its provisions,  of equal opportunities towards each supplier 
Collaboration,  supply  and  contracts  it has declared that average payment times  who meets requirements. 
regarding third-party business relationships  contractually defined with its suppliers for 
The  preparation  of  standard  contractual 
with Mediaset Group companies in general  2019 were 60-90 days and relative payment 
texts or those with specific legal issues is 
contain an explicit reference to the Code of  dates were duly complied with.  
assured  by  the  Group's  legal  department, 
Ethics (see also paragraphs 1.3 and 3.2 and 
the Corporate 231 Compliance Programmes)  Note that the selection35 of suppliers and the  and by external lawyers where necessary. 
and state that failure to comply with the rules  goods or services to be acquired is based on 
In a bid to make the procurement process 
set forth therein may constitute a breach of  the evaluation of various parameters, such as 
more  efficient  and  standardised  towards 
the  contractual  obligations  assumed,  with  the quality and price of the good or service, 
third  parties,  the  Mediaset  Group  in  Italy 
the  consequent  option  of  cancelling  any  guarantees of after-sales services, as well as 
operates via specialised purchasing centres, 
contracts made with any company in the  promptness and efficiency. When selecting 
whose  processes  are  described  in  the 
group.   suppliers, great attention goes into verifying 
following paragraphs. 
their reliability and seriousness in terms of 
                                                        
35 Art.19 of the Group Code of Ethics. 
122 