 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 6 ▪ Community and Territory 
In addition, the Group aims to oversee the  Acquisition of Rights   The  selection  of  suppliers  of  rights  takes 
certification  activities  of  the  various  place through the widespread coverage of 
The Mediaset Group acquires the following 
categories  of  suppliers  with  a  single  the  national  and  international  content 
through  R.T.I.  S.p.A.:  serial  content  (TV 
organisational  unit,  thus  facilitating  the  distribution market - while also participating 
series),  films  (also  through  the  subsidiary 
identification of any factors that influence the  in major sector events - giving preference to 
Medusa),  documentaries  and  sports, 
selection and management of the portfolio.   companies with consolidated experience and 
depending  on  the  programming  needs  of 
expertise:  North  American  majors  and 
Given  the  particular  business  of  the  free-to-air and pay TV. 
minimajors, European studios, leading Italian 
companies in the Group, the main purchase 
and international independent distributors. 
These  acquisitions  are  negotiated  directly 
activities  of  all  companies  fall  into  three 
with  the  owners  of  the  contents  or  their 
macro areas:  In particular, the Group refers to American 
broadcasting rights.  
majors for the acquisition and distribution of 
•  Acquisition of broadcasting rights (films,  cinema broadcasting rights on free and pay 
The Vendor list for the selection of suppliers 
series and sporting events);  TV,  and  to  European  majors  almost 
is prepared, updated and submitted to the 
exclusively for free TV only. 
•  Acquisition  of  content  (entertainment,  Risk, Control and Sustainability Committee 
news, drama) for the various distribution  every  six  months,  and  annually  to  the 
Special attention is paid to Italian works and 
platforms;  Executive  Committee  and  the  Board  of 
is aimed at both current and library works, 
Directors of Mediaset S.p.a., in compliance 
•  Acquisition  of  goods  and  services  to  through the acquisition by a Group company 
with the corporate organisational guidelines. 
of cinematographic works from independent 
support televised production and cross-
producers,  and  through  commercial 
production.  The assessment includes the verification of 
agreements  with  companies  outside  the 
any  ongoing  proceedings,  such  as 
The related procurement processes for each  Group  who  are  specifically  dedicated  to 
liquidation,  bankruptcy  and  mergers,  and 
of  these  areas  are  described  below  with  domestic production. 
also  includes  the  transparency  of  the 
evidence of their main purchase poles. 
corporate chain. 
The Purchasing Rights Department maintains 
commercial relations with all the major Italian 
Furthermore, suppliers resident in countries 
film  distributors,  through  multi-annual 
with  preferential  taxation  entered  on  the 
volume  agreements  and  prompt 
Black  List  are  not  considered  for  the 
procurement. 
purposes of this selection.  
123 