 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 6 ▪ Community and Territory 
With regard to multi-annual agreements, the  needs of the platforms, a percentage of the  continues, both in terms of films produced 
Purchasing  Department  envisages  the  budget  is  then  allocated  to  exclusive  within the Group and those created by 
purchase not just of individual contents, but  purchases for each of these.   third-party partners, with the acquisition 
stipulates "volume" agreements that include  of  broadcasting  rights  for  films 
The following key events occurred in 2019-
varied  product  categories,  based  on  the  distributed by Medusa Film and  Vision 
2020: 
annual production of the supplier. For this  Distribution  respectively  in  the  2018 
reason,  the  selection  and  acquisition  of  season 
-  as  part  of  a  renewed  commitment  to 
individual contents are conditioned by the 
acquire sports broadcasting rights, some  -  acquisition of free TV broadcasting rights 
contractual  terms  of  the  multi-year 
of the agreements reached relate to the  for independently produced or European 
agreement  which  define  the  minimum 
UEFA Champions League for the 2019- series  such  as:  Cathedral  of  the  Sea 
volumes by product type and the methods 
2020 and 2020-2021 seasons as well as  (Endemol), Time is a Killer (Federation), 
for selection. There are currently two volume 
the second year of three for the UEFA  Olivia  (TF1),  At  home  in  the  mountain 
deals, one with Warner and a second with 
Nations League;  (Beta). 
Universal. 
-  as  far  as  films  and  TV  series  are   
As for ad hoc acquisitions, selection is carried  concerned,  the  second  year  of  the 
out based on the approval of the product by  agreement with Fox, and the agreement  The owned film library was boosted during 
the market, or based on the interest stirred  with Paramount (including the FBI spin- the year with the definitive purchase of 100% 
by content in countries that are continuously  off, FBI MOST WANTED), is in progress.  ownership  shares  in  films  produced  by 
monitored, via information that the suppliers  Together with the Warner and Universal  Massimo Troisi, including Il Postino, Pensavo 
send to the Purchasing Department and by  volume  deals,  these  agreements  fosse Amore, invece era un calesse and Le vie 
assessing the product directly through the  guarantee us free-to-air TV film and series  del  signore  sono  finite.  A  prestigious 
monitoring of satisfaction ratings in cinemas,  premieres  and the best  evergreen film  transaction  was  also  completed  with 
paid channels and streaming networks.   and serial catalogue titles. An agreement  Melampo  concerning  the  TV  broadcasting 
was  also  reached  with  Sony  for  the  licence  for  the  masterpieces  of  Roberto 
Once interest has been established for that 
purchase of the series based on the film  Benigni, including Life Is Beautiful, Nothing 
particular product, rights acquisition usually 
The  Bone  Collector,  entitled  LINCOLN  Left to Do but Cry and Pinocchio. 
takes place in order to ensure that this is 
RHYME. 
available on different platforms (e.g. Infinity,  This  commitment  towards  focusing  on 
pay TV and free TV). Given the different  -  a  focus  on  recent  Italian  cinema  national products is justified by their greater 
124 