 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 6 ▪ Community and Territory 
appeal, especially in prime time, compared to  were predominantly Italian. These suppliers,  In the event of acquisition of movie rights by 
international series and films.  as executive producers or original producers,  foreign counterparties, the contracts drawn 
have an almost entirely Italian supply chain.  up  must  contain  clauses  that  provide  for 
Part of the investment in film production is 
Film  shooting  and  all  subsequent  post- Medusa  Film’s  right  to  make  the  cuts 
made  by  the  subsidiary  Medusa  Film.  All 
production processes take place in Italy.   necessary  to  obtain  approval  for  public 
works  are  characterised  by  a  complete 
programming,  with  prior  approval  of  the 
broadcasting  rights  chain,  starting  from  The close relations between Medusa Film and 
production manager and the supplier.  
those relating to cinema.   Italian cinema is a guarantee for the selection, 
production  and  dissemination  of  the  best   
The  latter  is  the  starting  point  for  the 
product, given the constant commitment of 
exploitation of the product, as well as the  Acquisition of content 
the  Medusa  Film  and  its  suppliers  to 
creation  of  value  through  subsequent 
enhancing  local  artistic  and  professional 
Entertainment  -  The  creation  of 
exploitation that can be  managed by the 
excellence. This commitment must always be 
entertainment  programmes  requires  the 
Group "non-exclusively" (for example from 
guaranteed to the highest standards in the 
acquisition  of  formats,  the  signing  of 
market  practice,  TV  on  demand,  pay  per 
industry in order to withstand competition 
executive contracts and the contracting of 
view) or "exclusively" (SVOD, free).  
from foreign products. 
artistic resources and collaborators. 
Also, constant market monitoring is carried 
Lastly, note that the Organisational Guideline 
About  half  of  the  suppliers  of  the 
out  on  film  content  to  identify  the  main 
on  the  planning,  acquisition  and 
Entertainment Area are agencies from across 
trends and products of greatest interest (at 
management  of  movie  rights  states  that 
Italy, particularly around  Rome and Milan, 
international and local level) and to gather 
supply contracts for the  purchase of film 
which  ensure  the  services  of  actors, 
useful information in general to guide the 
rights  from  Italian  counterparties  must 
documentalists,  directors,  costume 
broadcast offering. 
contain clauses that demand suppliers obtain 
designers,  set  designers,  directors  of 
approval  for  public  programming.  In  the 
The movie rights acquired in 2019 come from  photography,  choreographers, 
event of non-fulfilment of this clause, Medusa 
Italian producers, since the publishing line  commentators,  hosts  or  guests.  The 
Film  has  the  right  to  withdraw  from  the 
established  by  the  Group  for  Medusa  entertainment area together with the artistic 
existing contract without jeopardy  to  any 
envisages a focus on Italian cinema, typically  collaborations  area  (for  non-VIPs)  and 
possible claims for damages or, alternatively, 
comedy. In 2019, given the strategic business  artistic resources area (for VIPs) provide for 
to apply further specific clauses (for example 
objective  of  Medusa,  the  "core"  suppliers  the research and stipulation of contracts with 
the reduction of the fee). 
125 