 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 6 ▪ Community and Territory 
the various artistic resources employed by  designers, make-up artists, hairdressers  Selection of suppliers, both for content and 
the various Group companies. In particular,  collaboration, is determined based on the 
•  Graphic designers 
there are around 25 long-term contracts with  broadcast  needs  of  the  programme  while 
artistic resources (hosts and commentators)  •  Speakers, graphic designers and studio  also  assessing  the  professional 
linked to the most important broadcasting  animators  characteristics  and  experience  of  the 
products in the programme schedule. 2019  collaborator. 
•  Supply of public, participants, hostesses 
saw the involvement of 16,167 collaborating 
and stewards  Drama - The drama products featured in the 
artists and 600 musicians across all areas.    
Mediaset  Group's  broadcast  offering  are 
•  Contracts  to  companies  for  various 
Around  350  contracts  with  the  biggest  created  through  the  activities  of  the 
supplies  such  as  graphic  support, 
content  production  and  distribution  subsidiary Taodue and through the use of 
translation services and surveys 
companies in Italy and the world were also  independent third-party productions; overall 
signed  in  2019  to  acquire  formats  and  In addition to these collaborations, the News  this activity generates about 100 hours of 
licences,  award  contracts  and  co-produce  area purchases licences for various types of  finished  product  per  year,  mainly  for  the 
broadcasting products as well as collaborate  technical  materials,  as  well  as  regional  Canale 5 early evening programming.  
with entertainment professionals. 
suppliers of materials and lastly part of the 
In  2019,  the  drama  line  continued  to  be 
purchases goes to press and video agencies.  
News - The journalism and infotainment area  reviewed,  which  will  have  an  increasing 
of  the  Mediaset  Group  refers  to  the  Videonews has also developed a partnership  effect in the coming years both in terms of 
Videonews  agency,  whose  supply  chain  with  Mercati  che  Fare,  a  company  volumes and new titles. 
mainly  consists  of  collaborations  (about  specialising in the provision of sector content 
Almost all of the suppliers for this activity are 
90%) with the following professional skills:  broadcast  on  the  TgCom24  programming 
Italian. 
schedule.  
•  Journalists  
The selection of independent producers is 
The suppliers of goods and services in the 
•  Documentalists   fundamentally  based  on  the  projects 
news area, in 2019, are almost entirely Italian 
selected  by  the  broadcaster.  The 
•  Directors and authors  or  European,  with  some  exceptions  for 
broadcaster  decides  based  on  the 
international press and video agencies. 
•  Casting organiser  broadcasting  potential  of  the  identified 
product, or on the congruence between the 
•  Costume  designers,  second  costume 
126 