Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – Note on methodology 
disclosure – of the climate change impact  emit  atmospheric  pollutants  other  than  the corporate risk assessment process. 
generated and undergone by the Group. This  greenhouse  gases.  For  this  reason,  and 
The GRI Content Index containing the GRI 
also relates to the development of regulation  without  detracting  from  the  full 
indicators  associated  with  each  material 
in this area, in particular the guidelines from  comprehension  of  the  Group's  activities, 
topic can be found in the appendix to this 
the European Commission (Communication  information on these topics (addressed in 
document. 
2019/C 209/01 “Guidelines on non-financial  article 3 paragraph 2 of Decree 254) is not 
reporting: Supplement on reporting climate- included in the present Report.  
The scope of the economic and financial data 
related information”). 
reported  is  the  same  as  for  the  2019 
The contents of the present document are 
Consolidated  Financial  Statement  of  the 
For further information on the initiatives of  arranged by material issues for the Group 
Mediaset  Group.  The  scope  of  social  and 
the  Group,  the  main  risks  generated  or  and  its  stakeholders,  as  identified  by  the 
environmental data and information includes 
undergone and the management methods  materiality analysis. In particular, the process 
the companies which were members of the 
for these, please refer to the paragraph “The  whereby the contents were defined is based 
Mediaset Group on 31 December 2019 and 
internal  control  and  risk  management  on the principles of relevance, inclusiveness 
fully  consolidated  in  the  Consolidated 
system” and the corresponding sections in  of stakeholders, completeness and operating 
this document.  context  for  the  Group.  The  principles  of  Financial Statements1. This scope does not 
balance,  accuracy,  verifiability  and  differ significantly from that of the previous 
In particular regard to respect for human 
comparability have been observed in regard  year;  note  that  Mediaset  España:  in  2019 
rights, and given the regulatory environment 
to the quality of the information reported.   acquired a 60% stake in the share capital of 
in  which  Mediaset  operates,  this  topic  is 
El  Desmarque  Portal  Deportivo  SL  (the 
addressed  as part of the management of  Specifically,  in  2019  the  results  of  the 
parent company of sports information and 
relations with employees and suppliers, in  materiality  analysis  carried  out  in  2018 
content portal El Desmarque) and, starting 
observance  of  the  principles  and  values  (materiality matrix) were shared with senior 
from 2019, fully consolidates the companies 
embodied in the Code of Ethics of the Group,  managers  in  the  Group  during  the  ERM 
Megamedia  Television  S.A.  (from  30%  to 
updated  in  2019.  In  view  of  the  specific  strategic  risk  assessment  interviews. 
65%)  and  Supersport  Television  SL  (from 
nature of the business sector in which the  Following  these  interviews,  the  Group 
30% to 62.5%) following an increase in shares 
Group operates, note that the Group does  confirmed that the issues in the materiality 
held.   
not consume significant amounts of water or  matrix are monitored systematically within 
                                                        
1 For a list of the companies included under the full consolidation method, see “List of equity investments included in the Group’s consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2019” in the explanatory note to the consolidated 
financial statements of 31 December 2019 of the Mediaset Group. 
10 