 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 6 ▪ Community and Territory 
project examined and the broadcasting line  to  continuous  scouting  in  the  reference  is about 123, mainly resident in Italy, while 
of the Group.   market which makes use of the experience of  some are from the United States. 
the  Taodue  founder,  as  well  as  technical 
Historically,  drama  productions  are  solely  Given the speed of changes the digital sector 
production  personnel  and  companies 
Italian in origin.  is particularly prone to, selection of suppliers 
supplying goods and services. 
is always up to whichever partner companies 
In  2019  initial  experiments  began  in  co-
In cases where the use of minors is expected  demonstrate  a  marked  predisposition  to 
financing agreements with SVOD operators 
in  the  production,  the  company,  which  is  technological and product innovation. 
(Amazon  and  Netflix)  on  original 
required to comply with specific provisions 
productions.  The  innovative  arrangement  Radio - The core activity of the Mediaset 
of the law that regulate its employment, has 
specifically involves partial financing by the  Group's  radio  stations  consists  in  the 
set up adequate organisational procedures 
Group and availability of the product after an  production  and  issue  of  entertainment 
and  contractual  models  shared  with  the 
exclusive  initial  window  for  the  SVOD  content and musical flows aimed at Italian 
Group's legal support. 
operators.  radio listeners.  
Digital  -  Acquisitions  and  investments 
  Furthermore,  remaining  on  the  topic  of  For the conduct of its business, it mainly 
provided by the Digital area of the Group 
changes in the supply chain, it should be  relies on the service provided by speakers, 
focus on the following macro-areas:  
noted  that  the  contractual  templates  hosts and authors employed for the creation 
predominantly  used  in  the  past,  or  the  •  acquisitions  in  the  development  of  and  management  of  the  programming 
contracting templates, have gradually been  technological products;   schedule on broadcasters 105, Virgin Radio, 
replaced by co-production and pre-purchase  R101, RMC and Radio Subasio. These include 
•  investments  in  the  production  of 
templates due to the new legislation on tax  135 Italian freelancers, most  of whom are 
contents;  
credits  for  audiovisual  production,  thus  known within the radio and television scene. 
entering a residual category.   •  investments to promote the distribution  Most collaborators are Italian, but a limited 
number  of  foreign  resources  are  also 
of  content  produced  internally  by 
Almost all Taodue suppliers are Italian. In 
contracted.  
Mediaset agencies and productions. 
general,  the  main  categories  of  suppliers 
used  by  Taodue  for  the  creation  of  their  The main radio content is Italian and foreign 
The  total  number  of  suppliers  involved 
drama  include:  actors,  screenwriters,  music, which is indirectly acquired from the 
throughout the year for the various activities 
directors and copyrights, all selected thanks  record  companies,  with  repayment  of 
127 