 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 6 ▪ Community and Territory 
broadcasting rights via collecting companies  characteristics of each artist. More generally,  concentration  of  revenues  (checking  this 
specifically appointed for this purpose (Siae,  the direction followed would be to make the  exceeds  50%  threshold  for  a  single 
SCF, …).  selection  both  using  the  criteria  for  the  customer). 
dynamics  of  the  competitive  scenarios  in 
The programming schedule produced and  In order to better manage its suppliers, the 
which  broadcasters  act,  and  also  via  the 
distributed  by  the  broadcasters  is  Group  has  carried  out  a  review  and 
parameters of adequacy and consistency of 
"marketed" by the advertising sales house  rationalisation of supplier data also in 2019 in 
remuneration/contribution with the market 
Mediamond S.p.a., appointed on a national  order to identify subjects with whom the 
prices  of  that  particular  professional 
level  by  virtue  of  specific  advertising  Group has no longer had dealings for over a 
category.  
concession agreements through the sale of  year. 
ii
space (commercials, mentions, etc.) to third- Procurement of goods and services 
Further rationalisation of the supply chain 
party investors.  
The procurement processes of products and  was carried out based on critical issues linked 
The actual selection of suppliers takes place,  services  supporting  cross-operational  to expenditure, the regulatory complexity of 
first  of  all,  through  constant  market  activities  refer  to  the  following  supply  the  merchandise  sector  involved  in  the 
monitoring  and  careful  assessment  of  categories:  commercial relationship (e.g. suppliers that 
company  needs,  and  their  reliability  is  provide  additional  legal  obligations),  the 
certified through a continuous accreditation  •  Systems and technologies   type  of  contract  (e.g.  subcontract)  and 
process.  according to the employment of personnel 
i •  General  services  -  facility  /  cross-
(employees  or  direct  contractors  of  the 
functional 
Offers  are  made,  suppliers  selected  and 
supplier or staff of third parties to whom the 
services contracted according to the needs 
•  TV production  service is subcontracted). 
identified.  
The  Group  operates  exclusively  with  It  became  a  requirement  to  obtain  self-
In the artistic field (mainly speakers, hosts, 
accredited third party suppliers registered on  certification  on  a  monthly  basis  from  the 
guests),  where  each  broadcaster  uses 
the  Vendor  list,  checking  preliminary  supplier for contracts involving work services 
different  resources  depending  on  the 
personal data (company name, country of  (contracts),  signed  by  the  legal 
specificity  of  the  radio  business,  target 
residence, address, etc.), overall corporate  representative,  stating  that  the  personnel 
listeners and audience response, the main 
transparency  (identification  of  the  final  employed  in  rendering  the  services  are 
factors for the selection are the individual 
beneficial  owner)  and  the  level  of  regularly  hired,  paid  and  insured,  and 
128 