 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 6 ▪ Community and Territory 
ensuring compliance and correct fulfilment  any kind of slave labour, prohibiting any kind  Professional  services  consist  mainly  of 
of  all  legal  obligations  regarding  worker  of  discrimination,  complying  with  the  maintenance and development of computer 
protection.  legislation on the prevention of risks at work,  applications  and  consultancy  and  audit 
ensuring  the  safety  of  employees  during  services.  
Lastly, the management of these processes 
working hours and prohibiting any conduct 
aims  to  implement  a  gradual  turnover  of  Production services mainly refer to services 
involving corruption, blackmail or extortion.  
suppliers  in  order  to  diversify  total  of set design, lighting and subtitles.  
expenditure  over  several  parties,  thus  The contractors also declare that they will 
Contracts with national suppliers cover the 
reducing their concentration.  comply with environmental regulations and 
vast  majority  of  goods  and  services 
will  promote  the  efficient  use  of  limited 
Mediaset  has  also  established  that  all  purchases,  where  international  suppliers 
resources  such  as energy, water and raw 
suppliers  must  complete  all  registration  correspond  to  the  negotiation  of 
materials in the course of their activities. In 
phases  including  the  approval  and  technological services.  
this way, suppliers declare their commitment 
acceptance of the terms and conditions of 
to ethical and responsible management. 
 
the contract, the privacy rules, the Code of 
Ethics  of  the  Group  and  the  compliance  With regard to the types of suppliers and the 
6.2    THE SOCIAL 
programme in order to be classified in the  main items of expenditure relating to the 
portal dedicated to them.  Mediaset Group in Spain, there is a greater  IMPACT OF THE GROUP 
concentration in the purchase of television 
In  the  management  of  its  supply  chain,  broadcasting  rights  and  content,  76%,  ADVANCED TRAINING INITIATIVES 
Mediaset  Group  España  promotes 
followed by technological, professional and 
The Mediaset Group education programmes 
responsible  practices  within  its  sphere  of 
production services, which together account 
for  non-employees,  designed  to  develop 
influence  by  transmitting  environmental, 
for around 24%.  
skills linked with the world of commercial TV, 
social  and  ethical  standards  to  its  supply 
chain. Since 2010, contracts with Mediaset  Technological services contracted are linked  continued  in  2019  as  in  earlier  years. 
España suppliers have contained a clause  to  the  purchase  of  technical  materials  Collaboration between IULM University and 
that establishes their commitment to carry  (essentially  hardware,  software,  cameras,  the Mediaset Group was renewed, aimed at 
out sustainable activities, namely: respecting  mixers,  matrices,  audio  and  video  the development and improved organisation 
workers'  rights  and  union  membership,  equipment).  of the Master's Programme in Journalism, 
while the Publitalia ’80 Master's in Marketing, 
refraining from using child labour, refusing 
129 