 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 6 ▪ Community and Territory 
Digital  Communication  and  Sales  The  Mediaset  Group  also  offers  its  point for the labour market as an employer, 
Management reached its thirty-second year.  experience  and  professionalism  via  the  as well as elements that enable the ongoing 
Master's in Marketing, Digital Communication  updating of the training programme. As a 
The  Master's  in  Journalism  is  the  training 
and  Sales  Management,  which  was  result, the Master's course always acts as an 
course for professional journalists, combining 
established in 1988 by Publitalia'80.  up-to-date  "bridge"  between  Universities 
the  communications  and  information 
and the Company. 
capabilities of IULM University and Mediaset.  The  Master's  in  Marketing,  Digital 
Communication and Sales Management is a  This takes place thanks to teaching staff from 
It is a professional training course which is 
13-month postgraduate course with lectures  leading Italian and international universities 
recognised by the National Association of 
and  internship  and  limited  admission,  and contributions from managers in key roles 
Journalists  as  the  equivalent  of  an 
targeted at graduates who have decided to  within Italian and multinational companies. 
apprenticeship. The objective of this Master's 
start their professional future in the field of 
course  is  to  give  fledgling  journalists  the  The  Master's  is  the  most  long-lasting 
marketing, trade marketing, sales and digital 
professional  armoury  of  cultural  and  experiment  in  collaboration  among 
communications. 
multimedia skills they need to access any  the universities of Milan. From the beginning 
journalistic  speciality  and  produce    Through the two editions launched in 2019  of the initiative, the Rectors of six Milanese 
multimedia content suitable for all kinds of  (January-April  and  September-December),  universities signed up to it, taking part in the 
communication media. The effectiveness of  the Master's offered its 75 participants 153  Chairpersons' Committee: 
the  courses  is  validated  by  the  Joint  course  days  for  a  total  of  1,071  hours  of 
•  Università  Commerciale  L.  Bocconi 
Scientific Committee.  training; with reference to the January-April 
•  Università  Cattolica  del  Sacro  Cuore 
2019 edition, the 39 participants were able to 
There  is  also  a  technology  workshop  run  •        IULM Libera Università di Lingue e 
approach  the  world  of  work  through 
using  professionals  made  available  by  Comunicazione 
participation  in  a  total  of  140  days  of 
Mediaset.  It  stands  out  among  Italian  •  Politecnico  di  Milano 
internship, a total of 1,120 hours. At the end 
journalism courses as the only one of its kind.  •  Università  degli  Studi  di  Milano 
of this internship period, all graduates were 
•         Università degli Studi di Milano-Bicocca 
able to find a stable job. 
In 2019, ten students on the IULM Master's in 
Journalism were welcomed to internships in  They  were  joined  by  the  main  local 
The  companies  that  collaborate  on  this 
Mediaset agencies (TV, website and radio): 7  associations  and  representatives  of  the 
initiative  contribute  with  teaching  and 
for 2 months and 3 for 3 months.  financial and business world. 
practical sessions and provide a reference 
130 