 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 6 ▪ Community and Territory 
The Master's, now in its thirty-second edition,  initiatives  by  non-profit  organisations  and  documentary on the subject is also being 
has  to  date  educated  more  than  1,000  charitable associations for the protection and  produced, by the InfinityLab team.  
graduates,  many  of  whom  now  hold  top  support  of  ethnic  minorities,  voluntary 
October  is  traditionally  dedicated  to 
management positions.  groups, and institutions of medical research. 
prevention, and this October saw a campaign 
The  course  is  accredited  by  ASFOR,  the  The “Mediaset ha a cuore il futuro” (Mediaset  to  raise  awareness  of  breast  cancer 
Italian  Association  for  Management  cares about the future) initiative is a concrete  prevention. There were a total of 800 TV 
Education, as a specialist Master's course.   way  of  putting  Mediaset's  skills  and  broadcasts and 9 million web impressions, as 
communicative  power  at  the  service  of  well  as  mentions  on  Forum  and  Mattino 
Furthermore, the Mediaset Group has had 
society.   Cinque, with in-depth reports on the topic 
ongoing collaborations with leading Italian 
and  guests  linked  to  the  campaign,  and 
universities  for  some  years  now,  offering  Social  communication  campaigns  that 
reports on Studio Aperto and Tgcom24. The 
students of the main faculties opportunities  operate  according  to  an  integrated 
Mediaset Tower turned pink for the occasion, 
for  integrated  curricular  internships  to  multimedia scheme featuring TV and radio 
to  symbolise  life  and  prevention,  and 
complete  their  studies.  During  their  advertising as well as digital and social media 
sculptor  Stefano  Rossetti  produced  a 
internship  experience,  the  young  coverage  address  issues  of  national 
dedicated artwork which was on display for 
undergraduates are given the opportunity to  importance.  These  may  relate  to  national 
a week in Piazza Leonardo da Vinci, Milan. 
experience the world of work while building  emergencies or problems that are sometimes 
professional  relationships,  interfacing  with  neglected. This lends continuity and power  Radio too plays an important role in this new 
the organisational dynamics of the company  to  the  commitment  that  the  company  institutional communication campaign from 
and using the knowledge acquired during  already expresses through its programmes.   Mediaset: for the two campaigns running in 
their studies to further hone the skills and  2019, all of the Group's broadcasters (Radio 
The project began in September 2019 with a 
experiences that will facilitate their entry into  105, Virgin Radio, Radio 101, Radio Monte 
campaign  to  raise  awareness  of  school 
the labour market.  Carlo and Radio Subasio) not only broadcast 
leavers, with more than 750 TV broadcasts 
radio spots but also reserved time for in-
on all of the Group's generalist and thematic 
INITIATIVES AIMED AT   depth  exploration  of  the  phenomenon  of 
networks,  23  million  web  impressions, 
school  leavers  and  promoting  prevention, 
THE COMMUNITY 
reports on the subject by TG4, Studio Aperto 
with contributions from many hosts within 
Mediaset agencies receive daily information  and  an  in-depth  report  on  Tgcom24.  A  the various programmes. 
on  philanthropic  activities,  events  and 
131 