 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 6 ▪ Community and Territory 
We would highlight over 800 radio spots  appreciation for the initiative and its quality  organisation founded in 2003 as a tangible 
broadcast in 2019 by the various Mediaset  of execution.  expression of Mediaset's vision of corporate 
Group  radio  stations  to  support  social  social responsibility.  
But “Mediaset ha a cuore il futuro” is more 
initiatives.  Purely  by  way  of  example,  we 
than a system for raising awareness of broad- It is within this scenario that the Group takes 
might mention the following: “Mediaset ha a 
ranging  national  issues.  It  also  involves  to  the  field  alongside  Mediafriends  and 
cuore  il  tuo  futuro”,  “Never  give  up”,  “A 
concrete action for sustainability within the  Fabbrica  del  Sorriso  through  its  own 
fianco del coraggio”, “AIRC Cioccolatini della 
company. In productions with third parties,  agencies, in daytime packages on generalist 
ricerca”, “Assisi con il cuore”, “Fondazione 
for  example,  all  plastic  material  was  networks or on TGCOM24. Particular visibility 
Sic” etc. 
eliminated  from  sets  and  replaced  with  is given to the projects to which Fabbrica del 
On the web, a page dedicated to the project  branded metal flasks and compostable items.   Sorriso  is  committed,  not  only  upon 
was developed within the MediasetPlay site.  presentation and during fundraising but also 
This is because “caring about the future” isn’t 
In  addition  to  gathering  together  all  the  when the project is run and for the results 
merely a catchphrase but a way of existing, 
material  produced  for  the  campaigns  in  from the initiative.  
thinking and acting. 
chronological order, the aim of the dedicated 
Publitalia'80  contributes  to  the  social 
space is to publicise brand-new contributions 
We  wish  to  highlight  a  new  cross-media 
activities  of  the  Mediaset  Group  through 
and  in-depth  information  produced 
campaign  from  Mediaset  called  “Pensa, 
Mediafriends,  providing  advertising  space 
specifically for every topic focused on. It’s a 
prima di scrivere” to raise social awareness in 
that is used to promote fundraising mainly to 
genuine archive, always up to date and open 
connection with the national Anti-Bullying 
support the identified charity initiatives. In 
to  consultation  at  any  time,  so  that  the 
and Cyberbullying Day. It began in the early 
addition to this, Publitalia'80 reserves some 
contemporary  nature  of  the  problems 
months of 2020. 
advertising space to initiatives that support 
addressed remains present. 
scientific  research,  training  and  cultural 
We also wish to stress that sponsorship of 
The  entire  project  attracted  institutional  activities. 
fundraisers  for  public  and  private  bodies 
attention  and  interest.  In  particular,  both 
(recognised by the state) is all certified by 
Around 6,200 spots were broadcast in the 
campaigns produced were presented to the 
government associations (Civil Protection for 
year, with contributions free of charge from 
relevant Ministries (the Ministry of Education, 
Italy and AGIRE for the world). Many of these 
some of the main faces in the Group's artistic 
University  and  Research  and  Ministry  of 
activities are also carried out through the 
landscape. 
Health),  which  expressed  a  great  deal  of 
support  of  Mediafriends,  a  non-profit 
132 