 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 6 ▪ Community and Territory 
Publitalia 80 is a founding member of the  donation,  gender  equality,  anti-racism,  Finally, in 2019 Mediaset España guaranteed 
Fondazione Pubblicità Progresso, along with  sustainability, volunteer work, etc.   free advertising space for NGOs amounting 
the major players in communication in Italy.  to an estimated value of 7.5 million euros. 
The Group's radio stations broadcast socially 
This foundation aims to contribute to solving 
themed spots free of charge. This activity   
the civil, educational and moral problems of 
comes under the sub-concession contract in 
the community by placing communication at 
force between Radiomediaset, Monradio and  6.3   SOCIAL UTILITY  
the service of society. 
Subasio and the Mediamond sales house.  INITIATIVES 
In addition to paying a membership fee, the 
Mediaset  España’s  commitment  to  social 
sponsoring members provide their work free  MEDIAFRIENDS 
welfare is reflected in the 12 Meses project, 
of  charge  for  the  implementation  of  the 
Foundation's activities.  which consists of a range of social welfare  Mediafriends  Onlus,  a  Non-Profit 
initiatives such as:  Organisation (NPO), was established on June 
Pubblicità  Progresso  promotes  training  18, 2003 by Reti Televisive italiane S.p.A., 
initiatives  on  social  communication  at  •  Campaigns on equal working conditions  Arnoldo  Mondadori  Editore  S.p.A.  and 
leading  Italian  universities;  it  promotes  for men and women;  Medusa Film S.p.A. 
events, exhibitions and initiatives dedicated 
•  Campaigns on children's “right to play” in 
to important social issues; it sponsors social  We would highlight that in compliance with 
collaboration  with  the  Spanish 
communication  campaigns  carried  out  by  Legislative Decree no. 117 of 3 July 2017, 
Observatory of Children's Play and with 
non-profit  organisations;  and  it  holds  the  which  implements  the  delegation  for  the 
eminent  psychologists,  educators  and 
festival of social communication for training  reform of the third sector contained in Law 
scientists of international renown; 
and public educational purposes.   no. 106 of 6 June 2016, Mediafriends has 
•  Support for the Sanfilippo Foundation in  undertaken the revision of its bylaws in order 
Every year, Pubblicità Progresso draws the  researching  rare  diseases  affecting  the  to  implement  the  provisions  of  the  Third 
attention  of  the  authorities  and  public  Spanish population;  Sector Code updated with the amendments 
opinion to create greater awareness on a  made by the corrective Legislative Decree 
•  Collaboration with the “Reina Sofia 
specific  theme  by  implementing  105/2018. The deadline for submission is 20 
Foundation”  to  promote  the 
communication  campaigns  using  June 2020. 
“Lemon”  campaign  against  marine 
contributions from promoting partners: for 
example, campaigns on anti-smoking, organ  pollution from plastic debris.  Mediafriends  is  a  tangible  expression  of 
133 