 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 6 ▪ Community and Territory 
Mediaset's  vision  of  corporate  social  •  Protection  and  enhancement  of  the  project  estimates  provided  by  the 
responsibility.  The  association  focuses  environment;   Association through adequacy analysis of the 
exclusively on achieving social solidarity and  costs  presented.  At  this  point,  if  the 
•  International cooperation 
does not distribute, even indirectly, profits  evaluation criteria are positive, a contract is 
and  advances  or  any  funds,  savings  and  drafted  between  the  Association  and 
Mediafriends  is  responsible  for  identifying 
capital  throughout  the  duration  of  the  Mediafriends,  which  regulates  the  mutual 
and promoting opportunities for exchange 
Company's existence, unless the destination  obligations during the fundraising period and 
between the world of business and the third 
or  distribution  are  required  by  law  or  in  afterwards  when  Mediafriends  checks  the 
sector, in order to promote mutual growth 
favour  of  other  non-profit  organisations  implementation of the project, in accordance 
and the well-being of society. It also aims to 
which, by bylaws or regulations, are part of  with the provisions of the contract itself. 
better coordinate communication skills and 
the same unitary structure; it uses profits or 
deepen  relations  in  the  world  of 
The Mediafriends bylaws also state that the 
advances to perform institutional activities 
entertainment  and  culture  which  are 
money  raised  will  be  allocated  to  the 
and  anything  else  directly  connected  to 
expressed by the three original members in 
Association  through  the  Mediafriends 
them.  
order to raise public awareness and solicit 
Advisory  Committee,  with  three  positions 
donations to fund targeted projects by third 
Mediafriends  Onlus  carries  out  the  expressed by the Members of Mediafriends, 
sector NGOs. 
conception,  planning,  realisation  and  by Mediafriends and by a representative of 
promotion  of  events,  especially  television,  the  Association.  The  Advisory  Committee 
The process of identifying the Associations 
aimed at collecting resources for the charity  distributes the funds raised, indicating the 
and  projects  to  be  supported  through 
and  financing  of  targeted  projects  in  the  time frames and methods.  
fundraising  activities  includes  a  series  of 
following sectors:  
steps, starting from the identification of a 
Mediafriends then checks the reports from 
theme chosen among those envisaged by the 
•  Social, health and socio-health assistance;  the Association and monitors the progress of 
Bylaws and of one or more Associations that 
the project funded. 
•  Charities;   have  projects  in  progress  and  meet  the 
budget,  diligence  and  transparency  With regard to the process of establishing 
•  Education and training;  
requirements,  verified  through  Mediaset's  the single national register of the third sector 
•  Protection, promotion and enhancement  Supplier Certification Office.  as a new administrative obligation for bodies 
of culture, art and things of artistic and  (Legislative Decree no. 117 of 3 July 2017, 
The  second  step  involves  analysis  of  the 
historical interest;   which  implements  the  delegation  for  the 
134 