 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 6 ▪ Community and Territory 
reform of the third sector contained in Law  Hayez  e  Segantini”  exhibition  at  the  San  fundraising  project  which  began  in  2018 
no. 106 of 6 June 2016), Mediafriends' lawyers  Domenico museum complex in Forlì. These  continued in the first part of 2019, for four 
are  monitoring  the  situation  of  the  events  were  promoted  on  television  and  associations:  Amref,  Mission  Bambini, 
implementation decrees that should lead to  online with the collaboration of the various  Comunità  di  Sant’Egidio  and  A  regola 
the introduction of this register.  Mediaset Group structures: the presentation  d’Arte. The fundraiser closed at the end of 
of programme projects with services created  June  at  a  total  of  €1,046,276.00.      The 
Over the years, Mediafriends has supported 
by  journalists  in  the  News  Department,  projects  funded  relate  to  issues  such  as 
numerous TV and other events to raise funds 
fundraising spaces with commercials created  poverty, disadvantage and marginalisation in 
for the projects of non-profit associations. 
by  the  Creative  Department,  presence  in  Italy and around the world. 
The most notable of these is Fabbrica del 
programs  with  the  collaboration  of  the 
sorriso (the smile factory). Over 14 years of  The innovative “A Regola d’Arte” (ARdA) 
production structures of the Entertainment, 
activity,  over  72  million  euros  have  been  project,  in  particular,  is  aimed  towards 
News, Sport and Publitalia'80 Departments. 
raised  and  distributed,  allowing  165  disadvantaged Italian and foreign children 
On some special episodes of the “Caduta 
associations  to  implement  289  charity  living in the suburbs of Italian cities and seeks 
Libera” game show on Canale5, hosted by 
projects in Italy and around the world.  to  promote  integration  and  social 
Gerry Scotti, the prize money was donated to 
development  through  music  and  rugby. 
the fundraiser. Together with Publitalia'80, 
To do this, Mediafriends called on the close 
Rugby provides models for behaviour (unity, 
Mediafriends  manages  a  pool  of  social 
collaboration  with  Mediaset.  Firstly, 
loyalty, respect, managing aggression), while 
communications,  offering  space  free  of 
Mediafriends relies on the continuous work of 
music, in addition to building a grand Italian 
charge  for  the  broadcasting  of  social 
five Mediaset employees, who design events 
heritage, provides the possibility of cultural 
infomercials and creating times dedicated to 
and coordinate with both external bodies 
growth to those who, for reasons not linked 
social issues within its programme schedule. 
(third  sector,  institutions,  etc.)  and  the 
to  their  merits,  would  not  have  the 
departments within the company. 
Lastly,  the  Mediafriends  site  and  opportunity to access it. After consolidating 
Mediafriends slot on the TGCOM24 site, as  and expanding this initiative in 2016, it was 
Fundraising initiatives and activities follow 
well as and the Facebook Page of Fabbrica  continued  in  2018  and  has  seen  more 
one  after  another  throughout  the  year: 
del Sorriso, hosted campaigns for charities  extensive  implementation.  Currently,  it 
fundraising  events  including  through  SMS 
and numerous videos produced on some of  entails  the  funding  and  supervision  by 
donations,  field  initiatives  in  collaboration 
the most important social issues.  Mediafriends of 8 ARdA centres: two schools 
with recipient groups and editorial events 
(in the Baggio and Via Dolci districts), church 
such as the “L'Ottocento – l’arte italiana tra 
More specifically, the Fabbrica del Sorriso 
facilities  (in  the  Giambellino  district)  and 
135 