 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 6 ▪ Community and Territory 
three youth centres (Barrios, Barona district;  promoted a football event in Fano together  With a team of academics from the IULM 
La  Strada,  Trecca  district;  Ermanno  Olmi,  with the Italian National Singers' Team. The  University of Language and Communication 
Baggio district) in Milan, and the centres of  proceeds went to the project, which uses  in Milan supervised by Prof. Guido di Fraia, 
Palermo in collaboration with Ciai Onlus and  water as a means to stimulate emotional,  Mediafriends organised the “Essere Brand, 
L’Aquila  with  Action  Aid.  The  “A  Regola  sensory and motor activity in people with  ma uscire dal trend” conference: through the 
d’Arte  (ARdA)  project  expanded  in  the  communication  disorders  and  autism,  to  “Spot e Post del Terzo Settore” research on 
autumn of 2019 with the opening of a centre  promote  meaningful  relationships.  At  the  the development of the language of social 
at the Murialdo church facilities in Naples, in  same time, TMA Group launched a charity  communication in Italy in the last 30 years, it 
the Luzzati district.  number, which was promoted on Mediaset  offered those who work in the third sector 
networks, and 11 events in different pools all  and  communication  sector  interesting 
  A total of more than 300 children are on the 
over the country. More than 6600 people  considerations on the changes taking place 
rugby and music courses and take part in 
took part in the initiative's national events,  in these contexts. The book “Spot e Post del 
healthy, formative activities.   The activity at 
raising a total of €141,077.  terzo settore”, published by Hoepli, was also 
the centres in Milan was also documented in 
presented at the conference. Some of the 
a book of photo illustrations, “Territori di  Mediafriends also dedicated the Fabbrica del 
sales revenue went to Fabbrica del Sorriso 
Frontiera”,  published  by  Mimesis  and  Sorriso's autumn event to an Associazione 
projects. 
produced  by  Mediafriends  with  the  Brera  Italiana  Persone  Down  -  Livorno  project 
Academy. The book describes the meeting of  aiming to provide work experience for young  The  “Una  Furtiva  Nota”  initiative  for  the 
the students on the Brera photography and  people with disabilities, in order to help them  elderly  continued  in  2019.  This  project  is 
painting course with the young people taking  be  independent,  ensure  a  future  for  based  on  the  idea  that  art,  support, 
part in the A Regola d’Arte project. The book  themselves and become an asset to society.  educational and therapeutic activity play an 
is distributed online and was presented in an  A  plan  of  broadcasting  slots  in  Mediaset  essential role in social care situations. The 
event at the Brera Academy.   network  programmes  was  developed  “Opera  Guitta”  show,  a  successful  artistic 
alongside  a  TV  communication  campaign,  experiment combining opera, clowning and 
In the spring of 2019, Mediafriends decided to 
promoting a charity number and book of  theatre in the simplest way possible, is at the 
support  an  awareness-raising  and 
children’s stories with a percentage of the  heart of the project, run in collaboration with 
fundraising  campaign  organised  in 
proceeds and copyright fees going to the  Fondazione  Don  Gnocchi.  The  show  is 
partnership  with  the  TMA  Group  social 
project.  The  fundraiser  closed  on  31  written  and  directed  by  internationally 
cooperative.  Mediafriends  dealt  with  all 
December 2019 in the New Year's concert  recognised director Antonio Vergamini and 
television  and  radio  communication  and 
broadcast on Canale 5.  was performed in six elderly care homes in 
136 