Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – Note on methodology 
Further exceptions to the scope of reporting  •  Taodue for Taodue S.r.l.   and time limits for drawing up the Group 
indicated  above  shall  be  identified  in  the  Sustainability Report. 
•  Medusa for Medusa S.p.A. 
relevant section of this document. 
The Group is launching a process, which was 
•  RMC for RMC Italia S.p.A. 
To enable the comparability over time of the  initially  envisaged  for  2019,  increasingly 
data,  it  is  presented  alongside  the  •  Publieurope for Publieurope Ltd.   focused on identifying and making official 
corresponding figures for 2018.  guidelines and objectives in the sustainability 
•  Publitalia ’80 for Publitalia ’80 S.p.A. 
areas deemed material. 
For this reason, please note that the 2018 
•  Digitalia ’08 for Digitalia ’08 S.r.l. 
data flow for the Group's environmental and  This document was approved by the Board 
social  issues  also  include  the  EI  Towers  •  Mediaset  España  for  Mediaset  España  of Directors of Mediaset S.p.A. on 10 March 
Group,  which  was  deconsolidated  on  Comunicacion S.A.   2020. 
30/09/2018. 
With respect to the commitments previously  The  present  Report  was  subjected  to  a 
Also  included  is  information  on  Group  stated in the 2018 NFS, note that:   conformity assessment (“limited assurance 
actions  undertaken  in  previous  years  and  engagement” under the criteria articulated in 
which continue to be applied in the policies  •  With respect to health and safety issues,  ISAE 3000 Revised) by Deloitte & Touche 
currently pursued by the Group.   the companies of the Mediaset Group  S.p.A.  The  assessment  was  conducted 
Radio  Hub  obtained  18001:2007  according to the procedures indicated in the 
To guarantee the reliability of data, estimates  Certification in 2019 from the DNV-GL  “Independent Auditor's Report” included in 
have been used as little as possible. Where  certification body.2  the present document. 
used, they are identified appropriately and 
•  Moreover, the reporting procedure for 
based on the best methods available.  preparing the Sustainability Report was     
prepared  in  2019.  It  was  approved  in 
The following definitions are used in the text: 
March  2020.  This  procedure  defines 
•  R2 for R2 S.r.l.  roles, responsibilities, information flows 
•  R.T.I. for R.T.I. S.p.A.  
                                                        
2 
The companies of the radio hub are: Radio Mediaset S.p.A.; Radio Studio 105 S.p.A.; Virgin Radio Italy S.p.A.; Monradio S.r.l.; RMC Italia S.p.A. 
11 