 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 6 ▪ Community and Territory 
northern Italy after preparatory sessions with  Franzoso went to the non-profits financed  networks. Three episodes of the “Detto e 
the residents.  and drew up a written report afterwards plus  Contraddetto” series were also created and 
four web videos demonstrating the genuine  published  on  the  web,  dedicated  to  the 
From 23 June to 15 September, Mediafriends 
social impact of the AIL, AIRC, Make a Wish  conference and publication of the book on 
carried out a communication campaign on 
and Meyer Hospital projects.  communication in the third sector. There was 
Mediaset's generalist networks together with 
also  an  episode  of  “I  viaggi  di  Stojan” 
the Italian Red Cross for elderly people who  The Mediaset News Department also used 
dedicated to the story of the two bikers who 
are alone over the summer. A 30" spot was  the  footage  to  produce  a  20-minute 
went around the world in 2018 to report on 
made featuring the unmistakable voice of  programme called “Fabbrica del Sorriso. Una 
the projects that Mediafriends has financed 
Gerry Scotti, who invited elderly people in  storia speciale”, broadcast by Rete 4, La5 and 
over the years. 
difficulty  to  call  a  free  number  to  get  Mediaset Extra. 
assistance  or  even  just  a  kind  word.  The   
This analysis of the results of the project 
number, linked  to the  national  Red  Cross 
financed performed by people outside the 
switchboard, then reported the requests to 
 
structure  and  the  company  provides  a 
the local offices so that they could act on 
guarantee  of  the  impartiality  and 
them.  14,736  calls  were  recorded  over  10 
 
independence of the findings. The “Fabbrica 
weeks, with a daily average of 173 requests 
del  Sorriso,  Una  storia  speciale”  episode 
from elderly people all over the country.   
allowed viewers to see the real impact and 
In  October,  Mediafriends  supported  the  situations in which the money donated was 
Associazione Italiana Editori campaign “#Io  used. 
leggo  perché”,  which  saw  more  than 
There was also intense publishing activity 
400,000  books  donated  to  Italian  school 
developed  by  Mediafriends  independently 
libraries. 
for  both  the  digital  platforms  and  for 
In 2019, Mediafriends appointed Dr Andrea  Mediaset's  thematic  channels  and  TV 
Franzoso,  already  an  internal  auditor  for  networks.   11 editorials were produced in 
major companies and currently author and  2019  for  Mediafriends  sites  and  12  were 
web content producer, to check the projects  presented  within  entertainment  and 
financed by Fabbrica del Sorriso in 2017. Dr  informative  programmes  on  Mediaset 
137 