 
7.1  COMMITMENT TO  environmental protection") which describes 
the activities carried out for the collection 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
and disposal of waste produced, which is 
PROTECTION  treated  according  to  the  principles  of   
selective separation and recycling of waste 
The Group's commitment to the environment 
wherever possible and as required by current 
is also referred to within the Group's Code of 
laws and best operating practices. 
Ethics36,  with  special  reference  to  the 
conduct  and  provisions  on  environmental    In 2019, 158 requests were made to modify 
protection, which highlight the central role of  plants,  99%  of  which  were  approved  as 
environmental protection as a key factor in  7.2   MANAGEMENT OF   compliant with current regulations, including 
the company.   ELECTROMAGNETIC   compliance  with  the  population  exposure 
limits for electromagnetic fields. 
The  Mediaset  Group  is  inspired  by  the  EMISSIONS 
principles of respect and protection of the  These activities allow the Group to monitor 
The Mediaset Group Italia37 has always been 
environment and the local territory, and their  the impact produced by any changes made 
impact on the health of humans and other  committed  to  respecting  the  sector  to the plants throughout the area and ensure 
living  species.  To  achieve  this  goal,  all  legislation on electromagnetic emissions.   the  non-existence  of any negative  effects 
Mediaset business activity complies with the  due to radio-television signal emissions. The 
Elettronica Industriale S.p.A., a subsidiary of 
highest  standards  of  compatibility  and  applications  must  obligatorily  contain  all 
the Mediaset Group, is required to present 
environmental safety.  electromagnetic impact assessments of the 
documentation  to  the  local  authorities 
plants subject to the authorisation request.  
certifying compliance with the field limits of 
As proof of this commitment, the Group has 
adopted a specific Corporate Organisational  plants for the installation of new plants or for  The Electromagnetic Impact Analysis (EIA) 
Guideline  (O.G.  "Requirements  for  the modification of existing plants.   for larger plants are extremely thorough and 
include  “pre-existing  electromagnetic 
                                                        
36 The specific provision has been confirmed in the new Code of Ethics adopted by Mediaset S.p.A. and its subsidiaries in 2019: Art. 26 (Environmental protection) "1. The Mediaset Group considers protecting the environment 
to be a key factor in the company and is inspired by the principles of respect for and protection of the environment and the local territory, due both to their intrinsic value and their impact on the health of humans and other 
living species. To this end, the Mediaset Group is committed to observing the regulations in force and works so that all its business activity complies with the highest standards of environmental safety and compatibility.  
2. Particular attention is dedicated to the collection and disposal of waste produced by the company, which wherever possible is treated according to the principles of selective separation and recycling of waste, to reduce the 
impact on the environment to a minimum and as required by current laws and best operating practices." 
37 The issue of electromagnetism is taken into consideration only in Italy as the Mediaset Group in Spain does not directly manage the signal transmission network. 
141 