 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 7 ▪ Environment 
background” levels and the impact of that  As part of managing relations with public  reduction  in  magnetic  fields.  Mediaset's 
individual plant. 38The reference standards  bodies, Elettronica Industriale S.p.A. always  plants will have an electromagnetic impact 
provides absolute availability for inspections  even more comfortably within the legal limits 
for the Electromagnetic Impact Analysis are 
and collaborates with the ARPA, even in a  in the future. 
those reported in Law 36/2001 and include 
preventive  manner,  using  comparison 
the maximum permitted levels to which the 
In  2019,  the  Regional  Environmental 
activities during meetings with those public 
population can be subjected. 
Protection Agencies performed two checks 
bodies. 
on critical stations in terms of high power 
Furthermore,  while  complying  with 
In  the  next  three  years,  following  the  transmission or the proximity of housing to 
regulatory  limits,  Elettronica  Industriale 
transition to new frequencies caused by the  the transmission equipment. In both cases, 
S.p.A.  continuously  assesses  any  specific 
release of the '700 band for telephones, new  the Group's plants proved compliant with the 
provisions set by individual municipalities as 
applications must be made to authorise all  current  regulations  on  protecting  the 
well as any indications of any provincial, state 
plants, which will have to comply with the  population from electromagnetic fields. 
and  international  location  plans  for 
new frequency allocation plan. This will result 
transmission sites.  
The  equipment  managed  by  the 
in  further  analysis  of  the  electromagnetic 
RadioMediaset company is generally housed 
As  regards  the  assessment  of  the  overall  fields envisaged by the applicants and the 
at stations that it does not own. 
impact  of  the  transmission  sites  (within  Regional  Environmental  Protection 
which  Elettronica  Industriale  S.p.A.  plants  Agencies.  The  total  number  of  plants 
The  appointed  RadioMediaset  Office 
also  operate),  the  role  of  the  ARPA  envisaged  by  the  new  PNAF  (national 
independently,  or  with  the  support  of 
departmental agencies (Regional Agency for  frequency allocation plan) will be lower than 
specialist  companies  and/or  the  tower 
Environment Protection) must also be taken  the current number of plants in operation, 
operator itself, provided with the technical 
into consideration, which is responsible for  with  a  resulting  decrease  in  the 
documentation  necessary,  draws  up  the 
monitoring  activities  through  periodic  electromagnetic impact. The most sensitive 
applications  to  present  to  the  local 
analysis  and  sampling  of  the  plants,  with  plants have been monitored in recent years 
authorities  for  authorisation  to  change 
particular attention to more prone units of  by the regional agencies (ARPAs) without 
existing  equipment  and/or  activate  new 
the company.   penalties being imposed on Mediaset. The 
equipment. 
new PNAF means that a reduction in the 
number of plants results in a further overall 
                                                        
38 The maximum exposure limits allowed by current legislation are 6 V/m in homes and related outbuildings and 20 V/m in public places (see also par. 3.3) 
142 