 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 7 ▪ Environment 
7.3  WASTE MANAGEMENT   coordination  with  the  suppliers  and  in  The  Group  produced  approximately  1,800 
compliance with the law.  tonnes  of  waste  in  2019.  In  particular, 
In order to minimise its impact on the local  hazardous waste represents around 1% of the 
The verification of the authorisations and the 
territory,  the  Mediaset  Group,  including  total  waste  produced,  with  the  rest  non-
administrative management of the waste for 
foreign  investee  companies,  constantly  hazardous.  An  increase  in  non-hazardous 
all premises that are part of the Cologno 
monitors its consumption of raw materials  waste  was  recorded  compared  to  2018, 
Monzese headquarters are carried out using 
and the waste produced by its activities.   mostly in the "mixed packaging" and "bulky 
specific software (ECOSWEB).  
waste"  categories  due  to  organisational 
The Group mainly produces waste connected 
changes that occurred during the year. 
It should also be noted that the separate 
to  its  specific  activity,  such  as  mixed 
collection of urban waste has always been 
packaging  materials,  toner,  electrical  and  The Mediaset Group España monitors the 
present within the company.  
electronic equipment and bulky waste (e.g.  consumption of paper, CDs and toners in all 
sets),  and  hazardous  waste  composed  of  its  offices.  This  monitoring  focuses 
materials  from  ordinary  maintenance  specifically on the Fuencarral and Villaviciosa 
activities  (e.g.  neon  lights  and  batteries). 
Lastly, it is worth mentioning the possible 
production of hazardous waste due to the 
hospital service. 
All  refuse  produced  is  managed  in 
compliance with current regulations on the 
environment (Legislative Decree 152/2006) 
and  waste  collection  is  managed  using 
appropriate bins that have been approved 
for hazardous waste.  
The Mediaset Group also adopts oversight 
activities on the correct administrative and 
legal management of the refuse through the 
 
supervision of the transport process, in close 
145 