 Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 7 ▪ Environment 
Group coming out of the scope of reporting.  mainly due to the company car fleet and the  the  specific  national  energy  mix  for  the 
Its business is characterised by high energy  operation of a few generators.  production  of  electricity  (emission 
consumption.  coefficient used for Italy of 359 gCO2/kWh, 
The Mediaset Group company fleet consists 
for Spain of 296 gCO2/kWh and for France 
In  particular,  it  should  be  noted  that  all  of leased cars and a car fleet specifically 
of  72  gCO2/kWh  -  Source:  TERNA, 
electricity purchased by the Mediaset Group  owned for the Mediaset Group in Spain. 
International  Comparisons  2019).  The 
in Spain (equal to about 17.03 GWh in 2019) 
"Market-based" approach envisages the use 
In  2019,  the  Group's  activities  generated 
is  certified  and  comes  from  renewable 
of  an  emission  factor  defined  on  a 
greenhouse  gas  emissions  due  to  direct 
sources through Guarantees of Origin. This 
contractual basis with the electricity supplier. 
energy consumption (natural gas, petrol and 
consumption is mainly due to the technical 
Given  the  absence  of  specific  contractual 
diesel)  and  indirect  energy  consumption 
equipment  of  the  studios,  including 
agreements  between  Mediaset  Group 
(electricity) of the Group itself. In particular, 
recording, transmission and post-production 
companies in Italy and the electricity supplier 
a  high  proportion  of  the  greenhouse  gas 
equipment, as well as computer equipment 
(e.g. purchase of Guarantees of Origin), the 
emissions are due to Scope 2 emissions, for 
and air conditioning in IT rooms. 
emission  factor  relating  to  the  national 
which Mediaset is indirectly responsible, as it 
"residual mix" was used for this approach 
Activity to achieve greater efficiency in terms  derives from the electricity supply purchased 
(emission  coefficient  used  in  Italy  of  483 
of the above consumption continued in 2019,  externally. However, the zero contribution of 
gCO2/kWh and for France of 51 gCO2/kWh - 
above all by replacing the above equipment  the Mediaset Group España to these type of 
Source:  Association  of  Issuing  Bodies, 
which  is  most  energy  inefficient  and  emissions (according to the Market-based 
European Residual Mixes 2018, 2019). Note 
obsolete.  approach) is noteworthy, since all electricity 
too that Mediaset Group companies in Spain 
of the Group is covered by certificates of 
Natural  gas  is  used  to  heat  offices,  do  not  use  Scope  2  emissions  for  the 
guarantee of origin. 
laboratories  and  warehouses  only,  "market-based"  approach  since  they 
comprising  around  7%  of  total  energy  The  reporting  standard  used  (GRI  purchase electricity from renewable sources 
consumption. A 26% reduction was recorded  Sustainability  Reporting  Standards  2016)  certified with Guarantees of Origin. 
compared to 2018, due to the EI Towers  provides  for  two  different  approaches  to 
However, the direct emissions of Scope 1 
Group coming out of scope.  calculating  Scope  2  emissions:  "location-
generated directly within the Group due to 
based" and "market-based". The "location-
However,  the  consumption  of  diesel  and  the use of fuels for heating, generators and 
based"  approach  envisages  the  use  of  a 
petrol  in  2019  amounted  to  about  31  TJ,  the car fleet amount to approximately 4,116 
national average emission factor related to 
tCO2. For the latter, there was a substantial 
148 