Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – 1 ▪ the Mediaset Group 
 
1.2  HISTORY  exclusive  advertising  sales  agency,  the  company  with  50.1%  of  its  shares. 
Publitalia '80, and two other companies:  Telecinco is floated on the Madrid stock 
Before 1996 The origins of the Mediaset  Videotime,  which  was  in  charge  of  exchange the following year. 
technology  and  TV  production,  and 
Group lie in the late 1970s, when Milan- 2004 Digital terrestrial television launches 
Elettronica  Industriale,  which  managed 
based  entrepreneur  Silvio  Berlusconi 
the transmission network infrastructure.  in Italy. The new technology allows many 
founded  a  local  cable  TV  channel, 
more channels to be broadcast than with 
Telemilano,  broadcasting  from  its    Together, Rti, Publitalia, Videotime and 
the existing analogue system. Mediaset 
purpose-built headquarters.   Elettronica Industriale were placed under 
launches  Boing,  a  channel  directed 
the control of a new company, Mediaset. 
  Two years later, in 1980, Telemilano was  exclusively  at  children,  and 
And so the Mediaset Group was born. 
rebaptised as Canale 5. Due to a change  Mediashopping,  a  secure  teleshopping 
in the regulations, it began transmitting all  1996 Mediaset is floated on the Milan stock  channel. 
over Italy, something hitherto prohibited 
exchange,  opening  its  stock  to  2005  The  Group  launches  Mediaset 
under Italian law. 
institutional  investors  and  small 
Premium,  a  digital  terrestrial  channel 
  The new channel was a breath of fresh air  shareholders (around 300,000). 
offering live coverage of Serie A football 
for  the  Italian  viewing  public,  because 
1997  Mediaset's  international  expansion  via  smartcards,  with  no  need  for 
until then the only national broadcaster 
subscription.  Mediaset  Premium  also 
was the state-controlled Rai, whose three  begins with its acquisition of a 25% stake 
offers TV movie premieres, theatre and 
channels constituted a monopoly.  in private Spanish broadcaster Telecinco. 
live events in the pay-per-view format. 
  To  compete  on  equal  terms  with  the  1999 The Group enters the online world 
2006 Pan's Labyrinth, a film produced by 
public  service  broadcaster,  the  new 
with Mediaset.it (a website dedicated to 
private broadcaster put together its own  Gruppo Telecinco, wins 3 Oscars. 
Canale 5, Italia 1 and Retequattro) and 
3-network offering: Canale 5 was joined 
Mediaset  Online  (renamed  TgCom  in  2007 In a consortium with Cyrte Fund and 
by Italia 1 (acquired from Rusconi in 1982) 
2001), a news site available over multiple 
Goldman  Sachs,  Mediaset  relieves 
and Retequattro (acquired from Arnoldo 
platforms  (internet,  television,  radio, 
Telefonica of control of Endemol, a Dutch 
Mondadori Editore in 1984). 
Mediavideo teletext and mobile phone). 
TV production company and the world's 
  The new broadcaster was named Rti (Reti  2003  Mediaset  increases  its  stake  in  leading format producer. 
televisive italiane) and was assisted by an 
Telecinco, gaining a controlling interest in  •  Mediaset  also  acquires  Medusa,  Italy's 
17 