Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – 1 ▪ the Mediaset Group 
 
leading  cinema  production  and  platform, launches. Its owner, Tivù s.r.l., is  •  12 May: Mediaset launches La5, a free-to-
distribution company   jointly owned by Rai (48.25%), Mediaset  air digital terrestrial channel broadcasting 
(48.25%) and Telecom Italia Media (3.5%).  female-oriented content 24 hours a day. 
•  Mediaset  launches  a  new  free-to-air 
TivùSat  operates  as  a  complement  to 
digital terrestrial channel: Iris. The new  •  26 November: Mediaset Extra, a new free 
digital  terrestrial  TV,  serving  areas  the 
channel  specialises  in  classic  movies,  channel specialising in reruns of the most 
terrestrial signal is unable to reach. 
music,  and  adaptations  from  literature  popular  Mediaset  entertainment 
and theatre.  •  In  Spain,  Mediaset  S.p.A.,  Gestevision  programmes, launches. 
Telecinco  S.A.  and  Promotora  de 
2008 Mediaset signs an agreement for the  2011 Premium Net Tv, a new non-linear TV 
Informaciones  S.A.  (Prisa  Group) 
acquisition of Taodue, a leading Italian  announce the acquisition by Telecinco of  format  offering  up  to  6000  titles  on 
producer  of  quality  fiction  and  drama  a new company whose assets include the  demand, launches. 
series  Cuatro business unit (a free-to-air Spanish  •  July:  Mediaset  enriches  its  Mediaset 
•  Mediaset  launches  Premium  Gallery,  a  TV station owned by Sogecable S.A,), and  Premium digital terrestrial offering with 
new premium content service available  a 22% interest in Digital Plus. The deal  two new pay channels: Premium Crime, 
over  digital  terrestrial  TV,  using  the  makes the Mediaset Group the leading TV  for  aficionados  of  detective  films  and 
operator in Spain. 
smartcard format. Gallery has exclusive  thrillers, and Premium Cinema Comedy, a 
broadcasting rights in Italy for the best US  •  Taodue produces Checco Zalone's Cado  showcase for the best of Italian and US 
films and series by Time Warner and NBC- comedy. 
dalle nubi (distributor: Medusa Film), the 
Universal.  
2009/2010 season's biggest box office  •  Mediaset Italia 2, a new free-to-air digital 
•  Disney Channel and Premium Calcio 24  hit.  terrestrial  channel,  begins  transmission. 
launch.  The new channel offers movies, TV films, 
2010 video.mediaset.it, a catch-up service 
documentaries,  cartoons,  sports  and 
2009  Publitalia  '80  and  Mondadori  allowing  viewers  to  watch  recently-
entertainment shows directed at a young, 
Pubblicità reach an agreement on online  broadcast  Mediaset  TV  programmes,  predominantly male, audience. 
advertising  sales  and  found  a  new  goes live.  
•  Cartoonito, a free-to-air digital terrestrial 
company  owned  in  equal  proportions, 
•  NewsMediaset,  an  "in  house"  agency 
channel for children aged 6 and under, 
Mediamond. 
providing images, news and services to 
launches.  Like Boing, Cartoonito is the 
•  TivùSat, Italy's first free digital satellite  the entire Mediaset structure, is created.  fruit of a joint venture by Mediaset and 
18 