Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – 1 ▪ the Mediaset Group 
 
Turner  Broadcasting  System  Europe  2013  Paolo  Sorrentino's  film  The  Great  sports, motor sports, athletics, swimming, 
Limited,  and  enriches  Mediaset's  free  basketball,  handball,  hockey  and 
Beauty (producer: Medusa Film) wins the 
content  offering  for  children  and  numerous emerging disciplines.  
Oscar for best foreign picture and the 
teenagers. 
Golden Globe for best film. A new Checco  •  The  Mediaset  Group  launches  Infinity, 
• Plans to merge EI Towers with DMT are  Zalone film produced by Taodue, Sole a  Italy's  first  OTT  (streaming  television) 
approved.  catinelle, is the year's biggest box office  service.  The  new  platform  offers 
hit with receipts of 51.8 million euros, and  subscribers access to a catalogue of over 
•  In 2012, on completion of the financial 
the most-viewed Italian film since Cinetel  6000 titles including films, TV series, and 
restructuring of the Endemol Group, the 
records began.  drama and entertainment shows.  
Mediaset Group reduces and then sells its 
holding in Endemol.  •  Mediaset  España  secures  "free"  2014  Mediaset  wins  the  exclusive,  all-
broadcasting  rights  for  25  matches  - 
•  Premium Play, conceived as the successor  platforms Italian broadcasting rights for 
including  those  featuring  the  national 
to Premium Net Tv, is launched. With its  all UEFA Champions League live matches 
team, Spain - at the football World Cup in 
advanced technology, ease of use, quality  and highlights for the three-year period 
Brazil, which runs from 12 June to 13 July 
and  innovative  content,  Premium  Play  spanning 2015-18. 
2014. 
breaks  new  ground  in  the  Italian 
2015 Spanish operator Telefonica acquires 
multimedia sector.  •  Mediaset and Fox International Channels 
11.1% of the shares in Mediaset Premium 
Italy sign an agreement for the inclusion 
•  TgCom24 is repurposed as a free-to-air 
for a price of 100 million euros. 
of the Fox Sports channel in the Mediaset 
news channel available over DTT (slot 51) 
Premium  roster.  The  new  channel  has  •  The Mediaset Group signs an agreement 
and  satellite  (slot  24),  continuing  to 
exclusive rights for the live transmission  with Warner and Universal awarding it 
operate online via TgCom24.it and now 
of leading European football matches.   exclusive Italian rights over the films and 
available for smartphone and tablet with 
TV series distributed by the two US giants 
free-to-download apps.  •  Mediaset  signs  an  agreement  with  the 
for  the  periods  spanning  2016-20  and 
Eurosport Group for the inclusion of two 
•  Taodue repeats the success of Cado dalle 
2016-18 respectively. 
channels, Eurosport and Eurosport2, in its 
nubi with a new film production, Che bella 
Mediaset  Premium  roster.  The  deal  •  Mediaset  demands  that  Sky  pay  a 
giornata (distributor: Medusa Film), which 
extends  the  non-football  pay-per-view  retransmission fee for the unauthorised 
outstrips the former in terms of viewer 
offering of Mediaset to include the leading  inclusion  of  the  Group's  free-to-air  TV 
figures and box office receipts. 
tennis tournaments, cycling tours, winter 
19 