Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – 1 ▪ the Mediaset Group 
 
•  RadioMediaset  acquires  RadioSubasio  audiovisual content of the three groups.  the offering of the satellite platform. 
and Radio Aut, central Italy's leading radio 
•  On  10  May,  Mediaset  reaches  a  •  On 6 March, Mediaset España acquires 
broadcasters by coverage and audiences. 
commercial  agreement  with  TIM  to  60% of El Desmarque Portal Deportivo SL. 
•  Mediaset's holding in EI Towers rises to  rebroadcast all of Mediaset's free-to-air 
•  On 28 March, a deed is signed for the 
41.74% as a result of a buyback of its own  networks on TIMVision.  
reverse  merger  of  2i  Towers  Holding 
shares by EI Towers.  
•  Broadcasts from Focus, the new free-to- S.p.A. (in which Mediaset holds a 40% 
•  Mediaset's  holding  in  Mediaset  España  air  channel  dedicated  to  promoting  stake) and the subsidiary 2i Towers S.p.A. 
increases to 51.63% as a result of a share  culture, begins in May, on channel number  into EI Towers S.p.A.    
buyback.  35.  
•  On  29  May,  Mediaset  communicates 
•  Mediaset signs a three-year accord with  •  For the first time in Italy, all 64 matches of  acquisition of a 9.6% share in the share 
the  FIA  for  exclusive  Italian  television  the 2018 World Cup are broadcast live  capital  of  German  broadcaster 
broadcasting  rights  for  Formula  E,  the  and  free  to  air  in  June  and  July.  ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE.  
world's  leading  electric  auto  racing  Broadcasting was guaranteed exclusively 
•  On 7 June, the Boards of Directors of 
championship.  by Mediaset, meeting with great success 
Mediaset and Mediaset España resolve to 
in terms of broadcasting and audience.    
•  Mediaset  wins  exclusive  broadcasting  propose to their respective shareholders 
rights for the 2018 football World Cup in  •  On  31  August,  RadioMediaset  acquires  a  cross-border  merger  of  the  two 
Russia. For the first time, the Mediaset  RMC  Italia  S.p.A.,  parent  of  the  Radio  companies  into  "MFE  – 
Group will be offering all matches free-to- MonteCarlo network.  MEDIAFOREUROPE", a holding company 
air in both Italy and Spain.  under Dutch law.  
•  After  entering  into  a  partnership  with 
2018 On 30 March, Mediaset and Sky Italia  Mediaset, the infrastructure fund F2i SGR  •  On 10 July, transmission begins on two 
launches  a  takeover  bid  for  the  entire  new channels: Boing Plus (LCN 45) and 
sign  a  commercial  agreement  to 
share capital of EI Towers S.p.A.    Mediaset Extra 2 (LCN 55). 
rebroadcast the Premium channels on the 
satellite platform as well.   2019  •  On 15 July, the Court of Rome sentences 
the French portal Dailymotion, part of the 
•  Also in March, Mediaset España, together 
•  Following an agreement with Sky Italia, as  Vivendi  Group,  to  pay  Mediaset 
with RTVE and Atresmedia, launches a 
of  2  January  all  Mediaset's  free-to-air  compensation of more than 5.5 million 
web platform to create and distribute the 
channels  are  again  rebroadcast  among  euros for illegally uploading hundreds of 
21 