Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – 1 ▪ the Mediaset Group 
 
copyrighted videos. Mediaset has another  1.3   THE VALUES OF THE   Boards of Directors of member companies 
six  similar  cases  against  Dailymotion,  and communicated at Group level. 
MEDIASET GROUP 
which may result in total compensation of 
In the pursuit of its business activities, the 
more than 200 million euros. On 18 July  The  founding  principles  of  the  Mediaset 
Group therefore undertakes to respect the 
2019, the Court of Rome also sentences  Group are embodied in its Code of Ethics5, 
applicable  laws  and  regulations  in  all 
the  Vimeo  portal  to  pay  Mediaset 
which defines the values cherished by the 
countries where it operates, in conformity 
compensation of around 5 million euros. 
group at every level and in every area it 
with the principles of freedom and individual 
•  On 5 August 2019, the Italian Ministry of  pursues its business interests.  
dignity and in respect for diversity in all its 
Economic  Development  assigns 
forms, rejecting all forms of discrimination 
The first draft, which dates back to 2002, was 
Elettronica Industriale two sets of rights 
based  on  sex,  race,  religion,  political 
subsequently modified in 2008 and 2012. 
for broadcasting capacity (new DVB-T2 
convictions or socio-economic conditions. 
standard frequencies) on channels 36 and 
The present version of the Code of Ethics 
38 and further user rights equivalent to  As  a  major  presence  in  the  social  and 
was approved by the Board of Directors of 
half of a national multiplex.  economic  context  in  Italy  and  in  other 
Mediaset  S.p.A.  and  by  other  Italian 
countries, the Mediaset Group predicates its 
•  On 4 September 2019, the Extraordinary  companies belonging to the Group in 2019. 
growth on a solid reputation for transparency 
General Meetings of Mediaset S.p.A. and  The Code was created in the conviction that 
and  rigour  in  the  pursuit  of  its  business 
Mediaset  España  Comunicación  S.A.  ethical conduct is necessary for the success 
activities. 
approve  the  MFE-MEDIAFOREUROPE  of every business venture. It is therefore a 
cross-border merger.  cornerstone of the Compliance Programme 
In this respect the Group is committed to 
and internal control system of the Group, 
•   On  11  November,  Mediaset  España  promoting a working environment based on 
which  also  includes  the  Organisational 
acquires 5.5% of ProSiebenSat.1 Media SE.  respect for others and the values of loyalty, 
Guidelines (OGs) issued for each business 
The Mediaset Group thus holds a 15.1%  trust, transparency and integration, stressing 
process.  
stake  in  the  share  capital  of  the  main  priorities  such  as  the  health,  safety  and 
German private broadcaster.  privacy of its employees. 
Modifications and additions to the Code of 
Ethics are subject to the approval of the 
  In  regard  to  the  various  categories  of 
stakeholders, the Mediaset Group has always 
                                                        
5 The Group's Code of Ethics is implemented by all member companies except for Mediaset España, which operates its own code based on the parent company's. 
22 