Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – 1 ▪ the Mediaset Group 
 
platforms,  consequently  promoting  access  downloads.  (Source:  App  Annie  at  31  The  commitment  and  motivation  of 
on the part of the coming generation.  December 2019)  employees are considered essential to the 
Group's  success.  Young  people  are  also 
These  are  the  main  results  of  the  digital  In  relation  to  Social  Media  Network 
constantly  offered  opportunities  for 
activity:  presence, Mediaset confirmed itself as one of 
professional  growth,  capitalising  on  the 
the leading European media companies: 41 
diversity  of  origin,  experience  and 
•  total Mediaset Properties Video Content 
million  total  fans  on  Mediaset  network 
competence of the new resources. 
consumption  amounted  to  around  1.4 
Facebook pages, over 8 million followers on 
billion over the year, representing 68% 
Twitter and more than 12 million followers on  Finally, we would recall that, again taking the 
growth on the previous year, with 213 
Instagram.  new social dynamics and lifestyles linked to 
million hours of video generated in total 
technological  evolution  into  account, 
(Source Webtrekk);  In  Spain  too,  the  Group  has  a  broadcast 
experimentation  with  the  Smart  Working 
•  during  2019,  the  Information  hub  offering targeted at the coming generation;  project was launched in 2019 and will be 
(TGCOM24, Sportmediaset and Meteo.it)  we might take the example of Gran Hermano  extended  in  2020  through  progressive 
recorded an average Total Audience of  Vip (39.1% share for the 13-24 age group),  phases of experimentation to all areas of the 
2,175,000  unique  daily  users  (Source  Supervivientes  (38.5%  share  for  the  same  company assessed as compatible. 
Audiweb 2.0), positioning itself in third  group) or La Que se avecina (30.2% share).  
place  in  the  Italian  digital  information  It should also be noted that the Mediaset 
market.  In  terms  of  digital  offerings,  we  would  Group is highly attentive in both Italy and 
•  Mediaset Apps, with a monthly average  highlight  the  introduction  of  the  Mitele  Spain  to  internship  opportunities  that 
of 6.0 million unique users in 2019, hold  platform,  which  enables  innovative  supplement and complete courses of study in 
the  first  two  places  on  the  Italian  interaction between the content offered and  collaboration with major universities. During 
broadcasting scene (Source Audiweb 2.0  the end user.  internships,  young  undergraduates  can 
media Jan-Nov 2019);   approach the world of work, experiencing 
In the area of managing human resources 
professional  relationships  and  using  the 
(see  Chapter  5  "People"),  categorised  as 
In  particular,  the  Tgcom24  App  knowledge acquired during their studies.                                                                                                                                              
stakeholders,  Mediaset  has  launched 
exceeded  6.0  million  downloads,  the 
Meteo.it forecasting service reached 11.2  managerial  development  projects  through  On the subject of higher education initiatives 
million  downloads  with  its  App  and  classroom  sessions  and  individual  training  (see Chapter 6 Community and Territory) for 
finally Sportmediaset reached 4.1 million  meetings for young graduates.   people not employed by the company, the 
24 