Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – 1 ▪ the Mediaset Group 
 
Group's commitment to promoting Master's  communication. In 2019 the Master's offered  coming  generation  and  the  world  of 
and training courses should be stressed, for  75 participants 153 course days for a total of  work.  
young graduates interested in a career in the  1,071 hours of training. At the end of this 
The social communication campaigns that 
world  of  television,  marketing,  e-trade  internship period, all graduates were able to 
have  always  distinguished  the  Mediaset 
marketing, sales and digital communication,  find a stable job.       
Group  also  continue.  Awareness-raising 
in collaboration with major universities. 
The training activities in Spain follow.  campaigns with TV and radio commercials 
In  Italy,  we  organise  the  Master's  in  and digital and social media coverage aimed 
Journalism:  this  is  the  training  course  for  •  Master's in audiovisual content creation  at  the  community  and  youth  issues  in 
and management, launched in 2009 in 
professional  journalists,  combining  the  particular  (see  Cap.  6  Community  and 
collaboration  with  the  European 
communications and information expertise  territory).  
University of Madrid;  
of  IULM  University  and  Mediaset.  It  is  a 
professional  training  course  which  is  •  "Showrunner-aula  di  fiction"  course  The “Mediaset ha a cuore il futuro” initiative 
recognised by the National Association of  launched  in  October  2019  in  launched in 2019 is a part of this, a concrete 
Journalists  as  the  equivalent  of  an  collaboration  with  the  Cinema  and  way  of  putting  Mediaset's  skills  and 
apprenticeship. In 2019, ten students on the  Audiovisual  School  of  Catalonia:  a  communicative  power  at  the  service  of 
IULM Master's in Journalism were welcomed  workshop for young people intended to  society. The project began in September with 
to  internships  in  Mediaset  agencies  (TV,  create the formats of the future;  a  campaign  to  raise  awareness  of  school 
website and radio): 7 for 2 months and 3 for  •  Internship plan for students at the CES  leavers, with more than 750 TV broadcasts 
3 months.  School  (image  and  sound  studies  on all of the Group's generalist and thematic 
secondary school) to enable internships  networks,  23  million  web  impressions, 
The  Master's  in  Marketing,  Digital  within the Mediaset Group.   reports on the subject by TG4, Studio Aperto 
Communication  and  Sales  Management,  and  an  in-depth  report  on  Tgcom24.  A 
•  Participation for the third year running at 
established in 1988 by Publitalia'80 and now  documentary on the subject is also being 
the  Meeting  of  Digital  Talent  - 
in its 32nd edition, is also highly appreciated.  produced, by the InfinityLab team. A new 
Employment  Fair  in  the  Digital  Era 
The  Master's  is  a  13-month  (lectures  and  cross-media campaign from Mediaset called 
(FEED), an event that brought together 
internship) postgraduate course with limited  “Pensa,  prima  di  scrivere”  to  raise  social 
thousands of young people looking for 
admission aimed at graduates looking to a  awareness in connection with the national 
their  first  work  experience  and  which 
professional future in the field of marketing,  Anti-Bullying and Cyberbullying Day began 
aims to be a meeting point between the 
trade  marketing,  sales  and  digital  in the early months of 2020. 
25 