Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – 1 ▪ the Mediaset Group 
 
In  2019,  the  various  radio  stations  of  the  made it possible to finance countless charity  The Fabbrica del Sorriso's autumn event was 
Mediaset Group broadcast over 800 radio  projects in Italy and around the world, in  dedicated  to  an  Associazione  Italiana 
spots in support of those most in need.   In  particular for children and young people in  Persone Down - Livorno project aiming to 
addition to the above "Mediaset ha a cuore il  difficult situations and poverty.  provide work experience for young people, in 
tuo futuro" we would also mention "Never  order to help them be independent, ensure a 
The Fabbrica del Sorriso fundraising project 
give  up",  a  campaign  to  raise  awareness  future for themselves and become an asset 
continued in the first part of 2019, for four 
around eating disorders which affect young  to society. In addition to slots in Mediaset 
charities: Amref, Mission Bambini, Comunità 
people in particular and  "Fondazione Sic"  network programmes, SMS donations were 
di Sant’Egidio and A regola d’Arte.  
etc.  with  its  many  projects  to  support  promoted, as well as a book of children’s 
children and young people.  stories, with some of the proceeds going to 
The innovative “A Regola d’Arte” (ARdA) 
the  project.  The  fundraiser  closed  on  31 
project,  in  particular,  is  aimed  towards 
Mediaset  social  campaigns  are  also  a 
December 2019 with the New Year's concert 
disadvantaged Italian and foreign children 
tradition in Spain: the latest is the "Diritto a 
broadcast on Canale 5. 
living in the suburbs of Italian cities and seeks 
giocare"  initiative  for  children  in 
to  promote  integration  and  social 
collaboration with the Spanish Observatory   
development  through  music  and  rugby. 
of  Children's  Play  in  collaboration  with 
Mediafriends supports eight ARdA centres: in 
psychologists,  educators  and  international 
Milan, two schools (in the Baggio and Via 
scientists. 
Dolci  districts),  church  facilities  (in  the 
Finally,  the  activity  of  Mediafriends  Onlus  Giambellino district) and three youth centres 
(see Cap. 6 Community and Territory - Social  (Barrios, Barona district; La Strada, Trecca 
utility initiatives), a non-profit organisation, is  district; Ermanno Olmi, Baggio district). The 
a  concrete  expression  of  how  Mediaset  “A Regola d’Arte (ARdA) project expanded 
understands Corporate Social Responsibility.  in the autumn of 2019 with the opening of a 
centre  at  the  Murialdo  church  facilities  in 
Over the years, Mediafriends has supported 
Naples, in the Luzzati district, in addition to 
numerous TV and other events to raise funds 
the centres of Palermo in collaboration with 
for the projects of non-profit associations. 
Ciai Onlus and L’Aquila with Action Aid. More 
The best known of these is "Fabbrica del 
than 300 children are on the rugby and music 
sorriso", which in 14 years of activity has 
courses and take part in formative activities.    
26 