Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – 2 ▪ Economic performance and investor relations 
For this purpose the Chief Financial Officer is  In January, the financial calendar with  investors who contact the company 
assisted by the following two departments  details  of  main  financial  events,  is  via its Investor Relations team. 
6
that report directly to him:  reported to the market and published 
Mediaset stock was confirmed in the 
on the website. 
•  The Company Affairs Department, which  FTSE4GOOD  Index,  a  basket  of 
oversees  relations  with  retail  investors  The  company  guarantees  that  the  stocks representing companies with 
and institutional entities (CONSOB, Borsa  market receives information which is  high ESG ratings, selected by FTSE 
Italiana);  appropriate, fit for the purpose of correct  Russell,  one  of  the  first  signatories  and 
evaluation  of  the  financial  and  revenue  biggest  promoters  of  the  Principles  for 
•  The Investor Relations Department, which 
prospects  for  the  Group,  compliant  with  Responsible Investment (PRI).    
oversees  relations  with  the  financial 
applicable legislation and in accordance with 
community  (financial  analysts,  This index is designed to allow institutional 
the principles of clarity, propriety and parity 
institutional  investors  and  ratings  investors to identify the companies that best 
of access to information. In 2019 in particular, 
agencies).  meet the need for responsible investment. 
the  Company  participated  in  the  leading 
media  trade  shows  (especially  Milan  and 
The contact details and telephone numbers 
London)  and  met  numerous  institutional 
of  the  Mediaset  Group  Corporate  Affairs 
investors  during  a  roadshow  organised  in 
Department  and  Investor  Relations 
London and in individual 
Department are published on the Company’s 
meetings  in  its  own 
website. 
offices  and  reverse 
roadshows  over  the 
course of the year. These 
activities were part of the 
daily work of interaction 
with  the  22  brokers 
covering  Mediaset  stock 
and  the  numerous 
                                                        
6 With respect to this, Mediaset has published a calendar on the company's website and will provide a subsequent update in view of the merger of Mediaset S.p.A. and Mediaset España 
Comunicaciòn S.A. into Mediaset Investment N.V., which is currently underway. 
43 