 
3.1   CORPORATE   The  powers  and  operations  of  company 
bodies and committees are governed by law, 
GOVERNANCE 
by the company's articles of association, by 
Mediaset S.p.A., the holding company of the  the  resolutions  passed  by  the  competent   
Mediaset Group, is listed on the FTSE Italia  company bodies, and by the principles and 
Mid Cap Index 7 and is a signatory to the  criteria  set  down  in  the  Stock  Exchange 
Code. 
Code  of  Corporate  Governance  for  listed 
companies  (July  2018),  implementing  its 
The  Shareholders'  Meeting  represents  all  Report  for  a  breakdown  of  the  share 
principles and adjusting its own Corporate 
shareholders and has powers to deliberate, in  ownership structure.  
Governance  system  to  national  and 
ordinary  and  extraordinary  sessions,  on 
international best practices in this sphere.   The Board of Directors is the collective body 
matters falling under its remit by law or by 
of  Mediaset  S.p.A.  responsible  for 
the articles of association. The shareholders' 
The  subsidiary  Mediaset  España 
administration of the company. It plays a key 
meeting is chaired by the Chairman of the 
Comunicación  S.A.,  listed  on  the  Madrid, 
role  in  the  Company’s  organisation, 
Board of Directors, and its decisions, taken in 
Barcelona,  Bilbao,  and  Valencia  Stock 
overseeing functions and responsibility for its 
conformity with the law and with the articles 
Exchanges  and  on  the  Spanish  electronic 
strategic  and  organisational  guidelines, 
of association, are binding. The shareholders' 
stock market – Ibex 35 and its subsidiaries 
checking the existence of controls necessary 
meetings  of  Mediaset  are  governed  by 
are  subject  to  Spanish  Law  and  to  the 
to monitor the performance of the Company 
regulations framed to ensure they proceed in 
Spanish corporate governance system. 
and  Group.  The  system  of  delegation  of 
an orderly and productive fashion, and in 
powers is such that the central role of the 
Mediaset  has  adopted  a  traditional  observance of the fundamental right of each 
Board is maintained within the Company's 
administration and control system consisting  shareholder with voting rights to take part in 
organisation.  The  Board  of  Directors  is 
of  the  following  corporate  bodies:  the meetings, to request clarifications on the 
invested with the powers provided by the 
shareholders'  meeting,  board  of  directors,  items  under  discussion,  to  express  their 
law  and  by  art.  23  of  the  articles  of 
executive committee and board of statutory  opinions and to formulate proposals. See the 
association. In addition, the Board performs 
auditors.   “Profile and activity" section of the present 
                                                        
7Following the change in the composition of the FTSE MIB index, on close of trading on 21 December 2018, meaning that the Company has been included in the FTSE Italia Mid Cap Index since 27 December. 
47 