Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – 3 ▪ Ethics, Integrity and Transparency in Business 
the  activities  assigned  to  it  by  the  stock  Committee,  the  Risk,  Control  and  254/2016, the Board of Statutory Auditors is 
exchange Code.  Sustainability  Committee  and  the  also responsible for overseeing compliance 
Governance and Appointments Committee.  with  the  requirements  of  the  Decree  in 
The Board of Directors met sixteen times in 
regard  to  the  preparation  of  the 
2019.  Each  meeting  lasted  on  average  Since 2017, the Board of Directors has been 
Sustainability  Report,  and  prepared  an 
approximately  one  hour  and  a  half.  The  responsible  for  guaranteeing  that  the 
annual  statement  to  this  effect  for  the 
overall  percentage  of  directors  attending  Sustainability  Report  is  prepared  and 
Shareholders'  Meeting.  On  31  December 
during 2019 was approximately 90%, while  published  in  conformity  with  the 
2019, the members of the Board of Statutory 
the  percentage  of  independent  directors  requirements  of  Legislative  Decree 
Auditors were: 
attending was approximately 88% overall. On  254/2016. On 28 June 2018, the Board of 
31 December 2019, the Board of Directors  Directors confirmed the powers of the Risk,  Mauro Lonardo, Francesca Meneghel, Ezio 
comprised 15 members:  Control and Sustainability Committee with  Maria Simonelli (regular auditors); Stefano 
powers of supervision in regard to questions  Sarubbi, Flavia Daunia Minutillo and Riccardo 
Fedele  Confalonieri,  Pier  Silvio  Berlusconi, 
of sustainability connected with the activities  Perotta (alternate auditors). They will remain 
Marco Giordani, Gina Nieri, Niccolo’ Querci, 
of  the  company  and  its  dynamics  of  in office until the Shareholders' Meeting for 
Stefano  Sala,  Marina  Berlusconi,  Marina 
interaction with shareholders, in addition to  the approval of the financial statements for 
Brogi, Andrea  Canepa,  Francesca  Mariotti, 
the  powers  set  down  in  the  Corporate  the  year  ending  31  December  2019.  The 
Danilo  Pellegrino,  Carlo  Secchi,  (from 
Governance Code for Listed Companies.  Chairman of the Board of Statutory Auditors 
majority  list  “2”);  Raffaele  Cappiello, 
is  Mauro  Lonardo,  who  was  first  in  the 
Costanza Esclapon de Villeneuve and Giulio  The  Board  of  Statutory  Auditors  has  the 
minority list. 
Gallazzi (from minority list “1”).  powers  invested  in  it  by  law  and  by  the 
articles  of  association,  in  addition  to  its  The  Board  of  Statutory  Auditors  met  25 
Note  too  that  the  Board  of  Directors 
internal  control  and  auditing  remit.  In  times in 2019, with total participation rate of 
comprises  67%  men  and  33%  women.  14 
particular, the Board of Statutory Auditors  94%. 
directors are aged over 50, and one is aged 
oversees the financial reporting process, the 
between 30 and 50.   During the year, in line with the consolidated 
efficacy  of  the  Internal  Control  and  Risk 
practice of the company, with the purpose of 
Management System, the statutory audit of 
The Board of Directors has appointed three 
increasing the awareness of all the directors 
annual and consolidated accounts, and the 
internal  committees  with  advisory  and 
and the statutory auditors of the reality and 
independence of the statutory auditor. With 
consultative  functions:  the  Compensation 
the business dynamics and to favour greater 
the entry into effect of Legislative Decree 
48 