Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – 3 ▪ Ethics, Integrity and Transparency in Business 
knowledge  of  the  sector  in  which  the  3.2  ETHICS AND  employment  relationship,  even  temporary, 
company operates and of the regulatory and  with the company (e.g. employees, suppliers, 
INTEGRITY IN BUSINESS 
self-regulatory  framework,  different  clients etc.). 
meetings are pursued directed towards close 
CODE OF ETHICS   Respect  for  the  principles  and  values 
examination  of  specific  business  and 
enshrined  in  the  Code  of  Ethics  is  of 
corporate governance issues, through one  As  indicated  in  paragraph  1.3  above,  the 
fundamental  importance  for  the  correct 
structured program of Induction, also with  Code of Ethics of the Mediaset Group defines 
operation, reliable management and image 
the  aid  of  external  consultants  and  the  the  values  which  the  Group  cherishes, 
involvement  of  the  management  of  the  accepts  and  shares  at  every  level  in  the  of the Mediaset Group8.  
company and its subsidiaries.  pursuit of its business activities.  
All  activities  of  the  Group  are  therefore 
The statutory auditors of the company have  The new Code of Ethics was approved in  pursued in a spirit of fair competition, in full 
been invited to attend all these meetings.  2019, following a process of revision in 2018.  respect for the laws and regulations of the 
This was made necessary by, among other  jurisdictions  of  all  countries  in  which  it 
For  more  detailed  information  on  the 
things, the development of Mediaset Group  operates,  and  for  the  ethical  principles 
company's governance structure, including 
business activities, the need to harmonise the  commonly applied in the pursuit of business, 
the  composition  of  the  corporate 
such  as  honesty,  fairness,  propriety, 
provisions of the Code of Ethics with the 
governance bodies of the Mediaset Group, 
Compliance Programmes (Legislative Decree  transparency and good faith. 
diversity  in  governance  bodies  and 
231/01) adopted by Group Companies and 
remuneration  policy  for  the  members  of  The  Mediaset  Group  propagates  the 
adaptation to regulatory changes (e.g. with 
these bodies, the reader is referred to the  principles and values enshrined in its Code of 
respect to whistle-blowing).  
Report  on  Operations,  the  Report  on  Ethics via targeted information campaigns, 
Corporate  Governance  and  Ownership  The principles and provisions of the Code of  especially  with  regard  to  its  corporate 
Structure  and  the  Compensation  Report,  Ethics are binding on directors, auditors, all  bodies,  staff  and  employees,  encouraging 
which are all  available in the Governance  persons  holding  an  employment  contract  them  to  apply  and  strictly  observe  these 
section  of  the  company's  website  at  with  Mediaset  Group  companies  and  all  principles and values.  
www.mediaset.it.  persons  working  for/with  the  Mediaset 
The Code of Ethics is issued to all employees 
Group,  regardless  of  the  nature  of  their 
of  the  Group  together  with  their  salary 
                                                        
8 Including foreign investee companies 
49 