Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – 3 ▪ Ethics, Integrity and Transparency in Business 
statements,  and  to  new  recruits  at  the  supply contracts and, more generally, to all 
 
moment of recruitment.  parties  conducting  business  relations  with 
Mediaset Group companies. Contracts with 
COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATORY 
The Code of Ethics of the Mediaset Group is 
third parties contain clauses with an explicit 
also published and appropriately highlighted  REQUIREMENTS 
formal reference to the Code of Ethics (as 
in  the  “Compliance  231”  section  of  the 
well as the 231 Compliance Programmes),  As a supplier of audiovisual services and a 
Mediaset  Group's  website 
stating that failure to observe its provisions  radio broadcaster, the Group scrupulously 
(www.mediaset.it), in English and Italian, and 
constitutes  a  breach  of  contractual  observes  Italian  law  in  the  pursuit  of  its 
in the “Portale 231” section of the corporate 
obligations,  giving  rise  to  the  right  to  business activities, including requirements of 
intranet system. 
terminate the legal relationship.  a regulatory and self-regulatory nature. 
The Mediaset Group also implements training 
In line with Italy, the Mediaset Group in Spain  To  prevent  violations  of  applicable 
activities addressing its Code of Ethics, as 
implements its own Code of Ethics, which  legislation, the Mediaset Group scrupulously 
required  under  the  administrative  liability 
applies both to the parent Company and its  observes the requirements on air time and 
provisions of Legislative Decree 231/01) and 
Subsidiaries. Its latest version was approved  the protection of minors in the advertising 
in  reference  to  the  "231  Compliance 
by the Board of Directors in 2019. Mediaset  content carried in its radio and television 
Programmes"  implemented  by  Group 
España also implements its own Compliance  broadcasts.  The  following  requirements 
companies9. According to circumstances and 
Programme,  which  is  analogous  to  the  apply in regard to these issues:  
requirements, training plans are administered  programme  implemented  in  Italy.  It  also 
in classroom courses or via special e-learning  implements  a  whistle-blowing  mechanism  •  training  of  personnel  responsible  for 
modules.  allowing  violations  of  the  code  to  be  programming,  production  and 
reported anonymously.  broadcasting; 
Following  its  adoption  and  subsequent 
amendments,  the  Code  of  Ethics  was  •  general  oversight  of  programming 
distributed  to  its  different  recipients  activities,  using  a  delegation  system 
including  signatories  to  employment  and  conferring the necessary powers on those 
                                                        
9 The companies which have implemented their own Compliance Programmes under Legislative Decree 231/01 are: Mediaset S.p.A., R.T.I. S.p.A., Publitalia ’80 S.p.A., Digitalia ’08 S.r.l., Medusa Film S.p.A., Taodue S.r.l., Elettronica 
Industriale S.p.A., R2 S.r.l., Radio Mediaset S.p.A., Radio Studio 105 S.p.A, Virgin Radio Italy S.p.A., Monradio S.r.l., RMC Italia S.p.A, Radio Subasio S.r.l. 
 
50 