Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – 3 ▪ Ethics, Integrity and Transparency in Business 
their superiors or the designated bodies, i.e.  application of the principles of pluralism of 
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST  
supervisory and control bodies, where these  information.  In  overly  simple  terms,  this 
The Code of Ethics of the Mediaset Group  exist, and to respect the decisions taken by  activity takes the form of sending internal 
includes special  provisions  on conflicts  of  the Mediaset Group in this regard.  company  circulars  to  its  broadcasting 
interest.10 All recipients of the Code of Ethics  structures,  including  news  directors, 
Mediaset  implements  a  "related  parties 
must  scrupulously  observe  the  laws  and  precisely  indicating  the  requirement  to 
procedure" taking into account the dictates 
regulations on conflicts of interest, especially  observe regulations concerning equal access 
of the regulations containing provisions on 
with regard to the pursuit of their business  of  political  entities  to  television  and  to 
the subject of related transactions adopted 
activities and their own duties/functions. In  implement  the  measures  issued  by  the 
by Consob, the provisions of the Civil Code, 
pursuing the interests and general objectives  Authority. 
and the recommendations of the Corporate 
of  the  Group,  they  must  abstain  from 
Governance Code.  With  respect  to  Inside  Information,  on  13 
conduct and action incompatible with their 
November 2018, with the favourable opinion 
obligations in connection with their relations 
The Mediaset Group is therefore committed 
of  the  Risk,  Control  and  Sustainability 
with Mediaset.  
to taking all measures necessary for avoiding 
Committee, an update to the corresponding 
situations  which  may  present  conflicts  of 
Consequently, in the occurrence of situations 
interest.11  
or activities in which the recipients of the 
Code of Ethics may have interests (directly 
Mediaset  also  establishes  the  necessary 
or via third parties) which are or could be in 
measures  to  ensure  observance  of  the 
conflict with those of the Mediaset Group, 
regulations  concerning  equal  access  of 
these  recipients  must  immediately  inform 
political entities to television and radio in 
                                                        
10 Art. 6 of the Group Code of Ethics. The new Code of Ethics adopted by the Mediaset Group and its subsidiaries in 2019 contains a revised and strengthened Article 6 (Conflict of interest): "1. The Mediaset Group requests that 
Addressees, in their relations with the Group, adhere scrupulously to the laws and regulations that govern conflict of interest. 2. Addressees must pursue the objectives and general interests of the Mediaset Group in the 
performance of their business activities and their own duties/functions and must therefore abstain from activities, conduct and action incompatible with their obligations in connection with their relations with the Group. Purely 
by way of example, the following situations may constitute conflicts of interest: (i) having economic or financial interests, including through family members, in Suppliers, Clients or competitors; (ii) using one's role within the 
Mediaset Group or the information or data acquired in the performance of one's business activities and/or own duties or functions to one's own advantage or that of third parties contrary to the interests of the Group; (iii) 
performing business activities or any kind (including services or intellectual work) for Suppliers, Clients, competitors and/or for third parties contrary to the interests of the Group; (iv) initiating negotiations and/or entering into 
agreements – in the name of and/or on behalf of the Group – with family members or partners as counterparties, or with counterparties of which the Addressee is, in any capacity, owner or in which they are in any case an 
interested party. 3. Addressees must without delay, taking the circumstances into account, inform their superior or, if applicable to the specific case, the person to whom they are obliged to report situations in which they may, 
directly or due to third parties, have interests (even only potentially) in conflict with those of the Mediaset Group. Addressees shall respect the decisions taken by the Mediaset Group on these matters. These decisions are 
communicated to the Supervisory and Control Bodies, where established by individual bodies, for the adoption of any measures by such Bodies."  
11 The Group undertakes to guarantee, in all possible circumstances, compliance with the Law of 20 July 2004 no. 215 “Requirements on the resolution of conflicts of interest”, and with Agcom ruling no. 417/04/CONS “Regulations 
on the resolution of conflicts of interest” (amended by ruling no. 392/05/CONS 682/11/CONS).  
52 