Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – 3 ▪ Ethics, Integrity and Transparency in Business 
Procedure12 was approved, integrated with  persons/entities who act in the name of and  To avoid potential conflicts of interest in the 
on behalf of the companies and subsidiaries –  creation  and  dissemination  of  content,  all 
the  Material  Information  management 
with the exception of the listed subsidiary  related  commissions  are  subject  to  the 
process,  in  keeping  with  the  Consob 
guideline  issued  in  October  2017,  making  Mediaset  España  Comunicación  S.A.  –  review, analysis and approval of the Group's 
official  the  existing  practice  already  obliged to keep their own Insider Register, to  Acquisitions Committee.  
controlled by the relevant departments with  fulfil related requirements and to notify the 
 
respect to the Material Information.  reference market. 
   
The Inside Information Procedure governs  Via its regulatory compliance department, 
the  internal  management  and  the Mediaset Group in Spain works to detect 
communication  to  the  public  of  inside  and monitor potential conflicts of interest 
information concerning the parent company  between the company and its directors. This 
and its subsidiaries, as well as the operation  matter is regulated by the Code of Ethics and 
of the “Register of persons with access to  by  the  Group's  internal  code  of  conduct, 
inside information”. The Inside Information  which  both  provide  mechanisms  for 
Procedure is an essential component of the  identifying and resolving potential conflicts 
Mediaset  internal  control  and  risk  of interest, thereby preventing conduct liable 
management system and part of the rules  to damage the company or its shareholders.  
and prescriptions adopted by Mediaset in 
Under  the  regulations  of  the  Board  of 
accordance with Legislative Decree 231/01 
Directors,  related-party  transactions 
for the purpose of preventing offences.  
between Mediaset España and its directors 
The Inside Information Procedure applies to  are subject to the authorisation of the Board 
the  directors,  statutory  auditors  and  of Directors.  
employees  of  the  parent  Company  and 
Subsidiaries  as  well  as  the  external 
                                                        
12The parent company has carried out the assessment, gap analysis and material information flow mapping activities with the aim of identifying any opportunities to improve the inside information management process. The 
analysis carried out identified effective control of the process of managing and communicating inside information, structured correctly and formalised in a process/procedure that clearly identifies roles and responsibilities, in 
observance of the EU Regulation and Consob Issuers' Regulation. 
 
53 