Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – 3 ▪ Ethics, Integrity and Transparency in Business 
3.3   THE INTERNAL  demand  for  the  consumption  of  6.  Risks  connected  to  Corporate 
audiovisual  content  and  entertainment  Governance. 
CONTROL AND RISK 
and demand for advertising slots) and to 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM   the  evolution  of  the  competition  and  The principal sources of risk and uncertainty 
in  the  ESG  (Environmental,  Social  and 
regulatory environment; 
As an integral part of its Internal Control and 
Governance) spheres and of relevance to the 
Risk  Management  System,  the  Mediaset  2.  The risks connected with the  strategic 
Group are indicated below, together with a 
Group  has  adopted  a  Risk  Management  approaches and policies adopted and the 
description  of  their  nature  and  the 
model, both in Italy and in Spain, in order to  management of the  main “operational” 
management/mitigation  measures 
be able to respond better to the risks to  processes linked to the management, also 
implemented by management. 
which it is structurally exposed. The Group  on  a  progressive  basis  (for  example 
has  adopted  the  Enterprise  Risk  through partnerships and alliances) of the  Risks  connected  with  reputation  and 
Management  (ERM)  methodology,  already  broadcasting, commercial, technical and  relations with stakeholders 
identified as the benchmark methodology in  infrastructure models used to coordinate 
One of the Mediaset Group’s key strategic 
the Guidelines for the Internal Control and  and  manage  production  inputs  and 
objectives  is  the  ability  to  maintain  and 
Risk  Management  System  issued  by  the  strategic  assets  (managerial  personnel, 
increase content innovation and brand value 
Board of Directors, with effect from 2008  content  and  distribution  network) 
perception over time in  keeping with the 
and  regularly  updated  by  the  Board  of  employed  in  the  core  business  of 
development  of  its  business  model.  In 
Directors. It was last updated at the meeting  producing  and  broadcasting  the 
relation to this objective, there is a risk of 
of 20 December 2016.  television  offering,  also  in  relation  to 
establishing  broadcasting  and 
aspects of risk linked to the Company's 
The ERM model identifies the following types  communications  strategies  and  initiatives 
reputation and social responsibility; 
of risk factors which may be important from  aimed at the financial market and the public 
3.  Financial  risks  connected  to  the 
a  perspective  of  sustainability  over  the  that could have an adverse impact on the 
management  of  financing  needs  and 
medium and long terms:  perception of the Mediaset brand. This risk is 
interest and exchange rate fluctuations; 
primarily monitored via constant supervision 
1.  External and industry sector risks, which 
4.  Risks connected to the management of  designed to ensure full oversight of certain 
are linked to the economic cycle, to the 
legal disputes;  processes, and in particular: 
evolution  of  the  intermediate  and  end 
markets of reference (consisting of the  5.  Risks related to environmental policies;  •  programme  scheduling,  monitored 
54 