 
continuing to invest in the product and in  which is now severely testing our habits and 
D
technological  innovation  to  ensure  ever  affecting the social conduct of the public, 
increasing coverage of the main advertising  that we perceive our responsibilities all the 
ear stakeholder, 
targets.  The  quantity  and  quality  of  our  more, both as broadcasters that inform and 
broadcast offering spelt success in terms of  as an economic reality capable of stimulating 
audience figures, both conventional linear -  the market. Generalist television is now an 
In  2019  too,  Mediaset  has  worked  with  with our generalist networks, the extensive  authoritative, balanced point of reference for 
determination  in  accordance  with  its  offering of free-to-air and pay channels and  communicating  news  and  in-depth 
guidelines,  focusing  on  two  overarching  varied radio offering - and through our digital  information –  as  well  as  offering 
themes:  on-demand offering, unrivalled in terms of  entertainment and light relief – but it is also a 
original  content  provided  online  both  via  fundamental  lever  for  the  brand’s 
-  presence and strengthening of the model  browser  and  through  dedicated  apps  on  institutional  communication  strategies  and 
of commercial TV broadcaster evolving  smartphones, tablets, games consoles and  plans.   
towards a new digital paradigm in both  internet-connected TVs. 
Italy and Spain  We now come to the results for the second 
Having completed the Digital Transformation  overarching  theme:  international 
-  launching  a  corporate  restructuring 
which  began  with  the  decision  in  the  development. 
project  directed  towards  creating  a 
preceding financial year, we end 2019 with 
European holding company to make the  As  we  said,  we  concentrated  with  great 
positive economic results that allow us to 
business model even more sustainable in  determination  on  new  international 
look  to  2020  with  renewed  confidence, 
the new global competitive scenario.   development projects: financial investment 
Despite an economic situation which is still 
in  the  major  German  broadcaster 
uncertain and recently affected by fears of 
Let’s look at the results obtained within the 
ProsiebenSat1 and the launch of the MFE-
further unexpected slowdown connected to 
first overarching theme: reinforcing the core 
MediaForEurope business plan, which we are 
the  coronavirus  emergency,  to  which  our 
business. 
planning on finalising in 2020 as the first step 
Group  responded  rapidly.  We  acted 
towards broader pan-European integration. 
We were dealing with an unstable economic  immediately to safeguard the health of our 
We are sure that this integration will permit 
context  and  political  situations  that  employees,  collaborators  and  suppliers, 
perfect alignment of interests between all 
negatively affected the advertising market in  simultaneously adopting the actions required 
shareholders  and stakeholders in the new 
both  Italy  and  Spain.  In  this  context,  we  to guarantee continuous operation. It is in 
holding  company,  and  will  promote  the 
defended and protected our market shares,  precisely  this  extremely  delicate  phase, 
3 