Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – 3 ▪ Ethics, Integrity and Transparency in Business 
for  managing  executive  risk  management  are identified in accordance with the level  access  to  systems,  spreading  of  viruses, 
functions in everyday business activities.   of  risk  associated  with  the  loss  of  general attacks). 
confidentiality, integrity and availability of 
  On  25  May  2018,  European  Regulation 
information. This protection must also be 
679/2016 (a.k.a. the GDPR) on the protection 
guaranteed  in  regard  to  relations  with 
3.4   DATA PROTECTION AND  of  natural  persons  with  regard  to  the 
third parties. 
PRIVACY  processing of personal data and on the free 
•  protection of data against unauthorised  movement  of  such  data  took  effect.  The 
The protection of privacy and the data and  access,  while  ensuring  accessibility  for  Mediaset  Group –  in  observance  of  the 
information  pertaining  to  clients  and  legitimate  purposes,  with  a  suitable  regulations in force (especially the European 
subscribers is one of the principal concerns  degree of traceability.  Regulation, Legislative Decree No. 196 of 30 
of the Mediaset Group.  June 2003 “Personal Data Protection Code” 
A cyber risk assessment process has also 
and  national  privacy  regulations) –  has 
The  Group  has  prepared  a  special  set  of  been  implemented,  and  has  recently 
adopted  a  compliance  programme  for 
Organisational  Guidelines  on  Information  identified the principal areas of IT risk for the 
privacy management (“Privacy Compliance 
Security  Policy,  management  of  personal  Mediaset Group as well as the measures best 
Programme”)  with  the  aim  of  optimising 
data  and  the  protection  of  data.  These  suited  to  resisting  threats  and  mitigating 
company processes linked to personal data 
activities observe the following principles:  residual risk.  
protection.  
•  compliance  with  national  and  Among  the  most  important  initiatives 
Mediaset has also issued an Organisational 
international  legal  requirements,  with  undertaken  is  the  creation  of  a  Security 
Guideline on data breaches that accidentally 
particular reference to Legislative Decree  Operation Centre (SOC). The duties of the 
or  unlawfully  result  in  destruction,  loss, 
231/2001, L.262/2005 on the protection  SOC include  an early warning mechanism 
alteration, unauthorised disclosure or access 
of  savings  and  financial  markets  which  analyses  the  correlation  between 
to  personal  data.  The  data  breach 
regulations, and the European Regulation  accesses  to  information  systems  and  the 
management plan was prepared in order to 
(EU)  2016/679  on  the  processing  of  respective alarms so that security can be 
implement, where necessary, the action plan 
personal data.  managed  preventively,  identifying 
and  any  notification  of  the  Supervisory 
vulnerabilities in network components and 
•  safeguards  on  adequate  measures  of  Authority within 72 hours of identification of 
tracing  anomalous  or  dangerous  activity 
the breach and communicate the breach to 
protection  of  data  against  threats, 
(unauthorised  exploration  of  the  network, 
the  data  subject  should  the  rights  and 
including cybersecurity; these measures 
58 