Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – 3 ▪ Ethics, Integrity and Transparency in Business 
freedoms of the individual potentially be at  The Group has also implemented a series of  This protocol describes in detail the areas 
risk.  operating  procedures  for  managing  affected by such rights, the channels through 
initiatives requiring the use of personal data:  which Group users can exercise them, the 
  The  Mediaset  Group  in  Spain  is 
identification  and  authentication,  remote  procedure for replying to requests, special 
scrupulously implementing the protection of 
access, access to applications and use of  cases  for  the  exercise  of  rights,  and 
personal data and content in the sphere of 
personal  data  files.  These  procedures  are  notification  of  users  of  the  successful 
corporate  management.  The  primary 
regularly updated to ensure their compliance  outcome of their requests. 
instrument of implementation is the Code of 
with applicable legislation. 
Ethics, which addresses aspects relating to  The  Technology  Division  is  in  charge  of 
cybersecurity,  data  protection  and  In  2016,  the  Group  underwent  conformity  coordinating  and  managing  the  technical 
confidentiality. Using the Code of Ethics as  analysis  in  light  of  the  General  Data  aspects  of  information  system  security, 
their  guide,  the  data  protection  unit,  the  Protection Regulation on the protection of  following the corporate security policy and 
Internal  Auditing  Department  and  the  natural  persons  with  regard  to  the  the internal action procedures, which apply 
technology  division  will  develop  other  processing of personal data and on the free  to all employees and managers. 
mechanisms  determining  the  company's  movement of such data, which came into 
As part of this policy, and as a method for 
conduct in regard to data security.  effect on 25 May 2018. 
guaranteeing  control  over  access  to 
The  Group  also  implements  a  corporate  This  analysis  revealed  the  need  for  more  corporate applications and services, a set of 
security  policy  which  imposes  procedures  work  to  bring  the  current  management  guidelines addressing specific topics such as 
and  regulations  for  the  processing  of  model  up  to  standard  and  for  the  the  "Procedure  for  controlling  access  to 
personal data and confidentiality within the  introduction  of  specific  measures  of  a  applications" and "Procedure for managing 
organisation.  These  procedures  regulate  technical, organisational and legal nature.   media"  has  been  prepared.  The  latter 
access to and the processing of personal  procedure  defines  the  cases  in  which 
With regard to relations between company 
data  in  all  departments,  areas  and  corporate data must be encrypted. 
and citizens in terms of data protection, the 
management units of companies belonging 
Mediaset Group in Spain has defined and  A procedure has also been developed for 
to the Group, while also defining the security 
implemented  an  action  protocol  for  establishing mechanisms for managing and 
measures  to  be  applied  during  the 
guaranteeing the exercise of the rights of  sending sensitive corporate data. A project 
compilation of personal data to ensure the 
access,  modification,  cancellation  and  for  implementing  an  instrument  for  the 
confidentiality of the latter. 
objection.  management  of  access  and  information 
59 