Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – 3 ▪ Ethics, Integrity and Transparency in Business 
rights  was  developed  in  2018  as  a  Group's  Senior  Management  and  is  Group's digital channels and the deletion of 
technological support for the procedure. This  responsible for data protection for all Group  images published on the websites. 
solution involves the application of security  Companies. At the head of this unit is the 
rules and policies and the monitoring of the  Data Protection Officer, responsible for the 
distribution of corporate data.  relationship  with  the  Data  Protection 
Agency, as well as the areas of legal advice, 
The purpose of information system security 
internal control and IT security. 
management  is  to  ensure  the  availability, 
integrity  and  confidentiality  of  corporate  In 2019, the Personal Data Policy and the 
data, to control access to it, and to ensure the  relevant internal procedures were updated in 
data is adequately protected in conformity  order to adapt them  to  the  requirements 
with all laws, standards and regulations on  introduced by the GDPR. In addition, two 
data protection.  new protocols have been implemented to 
ensure  compliance  around  the  protection 
With  respect  to  data  protection,  in  2018 
and guarantee of digital rights. 
Mediaset España participated in the Cyber 
Crisis  Management  exercises  and  the  These  reference  documents  establish  the 
Multisector  Cybersecurity  Exercises  guidelines  for  optimal,  responsible 
organised by the ISMS Forum Spain and the  management of privacy and data protection 
National Department of Security.  as well as the corrective actions to be taken 
in the event of violations relating to correct 
Mediaset  España  constantly  monitors  its 
personal data processing by the Mediaset 
mission-critical  information  systems  via 
Group. 
periodic reviews and audits. Monitoring of 
the  systems  considered  to  be  most  During 2019, there were 1,070 requests to 
vulnerable also covers the activities of users.  exercise ARCO rights (access, rectification, 
cancellation  and  opposition)  received  and 
Mediaset  España  has  centralised  data 
managed by the interested parties, relating 
protection  management  in  the  Data 
to the cancellation of users registered on the 
Protection Unit, which reports directly to the 
60 