Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – 3 ▪ Ethics, Integrity and Transparency in Business 
3.5   RELATIONS WITH THE   These activities must be performed in full  platforms. The same year saw the production 
compliance with the applicable regulations,  of the project resulting from the European 
PUBLIC  
the principles set out in the Code of Ethics  Parliament’s  2018  Call  for  Proposals.  It 
ADMINISTRATION  and the corporate procedures.   developed  three  formats,  one  in 
collaboration  with  Mediaset  España, 
When carrying out its business - one well-
In  this  area,  Mediaset  Group  is  proactive 
broadcast during the year: 
established  throughout  the  entire  Italian 
through the company R.T.I., participating in 
territory  –  the  Mediaset  Group  in  Italy 
European projects financed by the European  -Cavoletti  da  Bruxelles  -  30  episodes  - 
entertains relationships with a great many 
Commission  which  include  collaborations  TGCOM24 
private and public parties.  
with international partner companies. 
-Insieme Juntos - 8 episodes - TGCOM24 / 
Precisely  in  the  relations  with  the  Canal4 (Spain) 
On December 22, 2017, the Mediaset Group 
aforementioned parties the group has added 
adopted  ad  hoc  Organisational  Guidelines  -Dov’è l’Europa?  - 4 episodes – FOCUS 
an ad hoc article to its Code Of Ethics (also 
that govern the attainment and management 
see par. 1.3 and 3.2) in order to govern the  In 2019, R.T.I. received a total of 209,402 
of financial assistance issued by European 
related activities.13   public institutions to back the development  euros for the above activities, following the 
public call for proposals, and 14,800 euros 
of  research  and  innovation  projects  (for 
In addition to prohibiting any illicit conduct  from the European Commission for the rights 
example on the topic of emerging or future 
that may involve the Group in its relations  to the content produced. 
technologies, saving the environment, etc.). 
with public bodies, the Code of Ethics also 
Through the company Medusa, the Mediaset 
covers  the  activities  that  see  the  Group  In  2019,  collaboration  with  the  European 
Group also operates in the cinema industry, 
involved  in  partnerships  with  public  Commission was renewed and gave rise to a 
receiving  contributions  through  support 
institutions.  series  of  evening  programmes  entitled 
instruments  from  public  bodies,  mainly 
“Giovane  Europa”,  broadcast  on  the 
In  this  case,  the  Group  may  support  national, and the rest from European bodies.  
TGCOM24 channel. The rights for the format 
programmes of public institutions or bodies 
created  were  granted  to  the  European 
The primary and most important source of 
aimed at creating public benefit as well as 
Commission  for  its  own  communication 
contributions  relates  to  Medusa  in  its 
projects  of  foundations  and  associations. 
                                                        
13 Art. 21 “Relations with Public Institutions” requires the Mediaset Group to maintain a collaborative and transparent relationship with the national, community and international public institutions to facilitate dialogue on topics 
of specific interest. The relations must be maintained fully in compliance with the current regulations, the principles in the Code of Ethics and the corporate procedures, on the basis of the general criteria of propriety, transparency 
and loyalty. 
61 