Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – 3 ▪ Ethics, Integrity and Transparency in Business 
companies,  providing  a  summary  of  the  manner  according  to  the  law  and  in  full 
ANTI-CORRUPTION AND UNFAIR 
ethical  and  conduct  rules  that  must  be  compliance  with  the  aforementioned 
COMPETITION 
strictly  adhered  to  in  order  to  keep  principles. 
The topic of active and passive corruption is  illegitimate  or  incorrect  conduct  from 
Based  on  the  results  of  the  activities 
first and foremost overseen within the scope  occurring, and to follow the provisions set 
designed to identify  risks within Mediaset 
of the Code of Ethics of the Mediaset Group  forth by the current regulations in the area of 
Group companies, this policy identifies the 
through  specific  provisions  that  define  anti-corruption as well as the principles and 
main  areas  of  remotely  relevant  activities 
general principles on the topic.15   values in the  Code  of Ethics,  Compliance 
identified  as  being  “at  risk”,  with  specific 
Programmes pursuant to Legislative Decree 
reference  to  the  possible  commission  of 
Furthermore,  considering  the  constant  231 and corporate procedures currently in 
crimes of public and private corruption. This 
strengthening of the fight against public and  effect.  
refers  to  the  main  areas  (for  example 
private corruption, both internationally and 
In this policy, the Mediaset Group companies  management of relations with public bodies 
nationally, in view of legislators’ particular 
deplore and condemn any and all corrupt  and institutions, the purchase of goods and 
focus on combating corruptive practices, the 
behaviour  or  activity  including,  without  services, management of gifts, entertainment 
Mediaset Group has decided to align itself 
limitation, illegitimate favouritism, collusion,  expenses,  sponsorships  and  donations, 
with  industry  best  practices  to  combat 
solicitations – made directly and/or through  selection and hiring of personnel, etc.) in the 
corruption, adopting a Group policy in Italy 
third parties – for personal benefits of any  sphere  where  it  is  best  to  pay  special 
called “General Anti-corruption Guidelines” 
kind for themselves or for others.   attention  to  issues  concerning  corporate 
which  is  included  in  the  Compliance 
compliance,  specifically  in  relation  to 
Programmes pursuant to Legislative Decree 
Moreover, it is required that any party acting 
prevention  and  fighting  corrupt  practices. 
231 of the companies that have them.  
in the name or on behalf of Mediaset Group 
Regarding these areas identified as being “at 
companies  in  business  relationships  with 
This policy offers a systematic framework of  risk”,  each  Mediaset  Group  company  has 
public or private entities must always and in 
reference  on  the  topic  of  prohibition  of  defined  designated  controls  (general  and 
all  circumstances  behave  in  an  ethical 
corrupt  practices  for  Mediaset  group  specific),  adopting,  when  necessary, 
                                                        
15 The Group's Code of Ethics is implemented by all Group companies except for the Mediaset Group in Spain, which operates its own code based on the parent Company's. 
The new Code of Ethics, adopted by Mediaset S.p.A. and its subsidiaries in 2019, has a specific new article dedicated to preventing corruption with the aim of setting out a systematic reference system for preventing corrupt 
practices for Mediaset Group companies. Specifically, it provides for a summary of the ethical and conduct rules that Addressees must strictly adhere to in order to follow the provisions set forth by the current regulations. 
Article 20 (Protection of competition) sets out: “The Mediaset Group recognises fair, free and honest competition as a decisive factor for market growth as well as constant improvement of the business. It therefore abstains 
from conduct that encourages dealings to its own advantage in violation of current regulations. The Mediaset Group promotes training activity to encourage competition, standards and regulations to protect competition and 
ensure that they are observed.” 
65 