Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – 3 ▪ Ethics, Integrity and Transparency in Business 
corporate Organisational Guidelines (“OGs”)  Moreover,  regarding  the  topic  of  compliance, confirming the advisability that 
which govern the processes in which corrupt  competition, the Group Code of Ethics (See  they  equip  themselves  with  an  Antitrust 
practices may occur (both in relations with  also  par.  1.3  and  3.2)  contains  a  specific  Compliance Programme.  
governments and among private parties).   provision16 which states that the Mediaset 
The adoption  of an  adequate  Compliance 
Group  recognises  fair,  free  and  honest 
As already highlighted above, the Internal  Programme  is  recognised  as  a  mitigating 
competition as a decisive factor for market 
Auditing Department periodically performs  circumstance in the event that penalties are 
growth as well as constant improvement of 
specific auditing activity to identify “areas of  determined for antitrust offences.  
the business.  
at-risk activity” with respect to crime, also for 
The  process  described  above  will  be 
corrupt practices and also as instructed by 
This  is  why  the  group  abstains  from 
completed in 2020. 
the  Supervisory  and  Control  Bodies 
behaviour that encourages deals which are in 
appointed  by  the  Group  companies  in 
violation of current regulations.  Lastly, the foreign company Publieurope has 
accordance with Legislative Decree 231/01. 
also adopted an “anti-corruption policy” in 
There  is  also  constant  monitoring  on  We would also highlight the fact that, in 2019, 
order  to  prevent  any  corrupt  practices, 
regulatory changes concerning corruption,  Mediaset decided to initiate a process with 
beyond the Group Code of Ethics, binding for 
also with a view to updating the Compliance  the  aim  of  adopting  a  specific  antitrust 
all employees and those who have relations 
Programmes  adopted  by  Mediaset  Group  compliance  programme,  understood  as  a 
with the company. The document is posted 
companies  in  accordance  with  Legislative  system  of  rules  predominantly  directed 
on  the  Publieurope  website.  The  main 
Decree 231/01. With this in mind, the Internal  towards  preventing  potentially  significant 
contracts  make  explicit  reference  to 
Auditing Department carried out risk analysis  conduct in terms of antitrust offences. 
following both the Code of Ethics of Group 
activity in this reporting period concerning 
and  the  “Bribery  Act”  (which  addresses 
This  activity  is  taking  place  following 
the predicate crime of influence peddling, 
policy  on  corruption).  The  figure  of  the 
antitrust compliance Guidelines issued by the 
introduced  as  part  of  Legislative  Decree 
Compliance Officer has also been instated as 
Antitrust  Authority.  The  intent  of  the 
231/01 by Law No 3/2019.  
the individual responsible for the corruption 
Authority was to set out rules of conduct that 
prevention system. Publieurope underwent a 
companies  must  implement  for  effective 
                                                        
16 Article 18 of the Group Code of Ethics. The Group's Code of Ethics is implemented by all Group companies except for the Mediaset Group in Spain, which operates its own code based on the parent Company's. 
The new Code of Ethics adopted by Mediaset S.p.A. and its subsidiaries in 2019 has a specific new provision concerning competition. Article 20 (Protection of competition): “The Mediaset Group recognises fair, free and honest 
competition as a decisive factor for market growth as well as constant improvement of the business. It therefore abstains from conduct that encourages dealings to its own advantage in violation of current regulations. The 
Mediaset Group promotes training activity to encourage competition, standards and regulations to protect competition and ensure that they are observed.” 
66 