Sustainability Report 2019 – Mediaset Group – Letter to Stakeholders 
adoption of more efficient operating models  defending human rights and eliminating  generation, all the more so at this juncture 
capable of supporting investment to develop  every form of discrimination;   marked  by  constant,  rapid  change  in 
the core activities of all broadcasters within  consumer dynamics and multi-device use of 
-  increasing  investment  in  policies  to 
the company.   media content, lending impetus to a swift 
promote  better  working  conditions  for 
internal generational transition.   
our employees in terms of health, safety, 
Having examined the guidelines, we would 
welfare  and  well-being,  increasing  our 
also  note  that  the  positive  consolidated  The  coming  generation  now  perfectly 
Group's attractiveness to young talents to 
performance achieved in 2019 was by no  represents  modern  public  opinion.  They 
recruit to key areas such as technology, 
means something to take for granted, in a  possess values connected to sustainability 
content and advertising;  
constantly  changing  competitive  context  and  are  key  players  in  changing 
which is ever more crowded. The Group’s  -  no-profit  and  social  communication  consumption.  The  ruling  class  has  a 
sound  progress  boosts  awareness  of  the  activity;   responsibility  to  act  urgently  and  without 
strength of our values and our distinctive  delay to guarantee sustainable development, 
-  full  compliance  with  material  ESG 
traits,  which  we  once  more  place  at  the  also in light of proven climate, environmental 
(Environmental, Social and Governance) 
centre of this Non-Financial Statement. To  and social emergencies.  
criteria for sustainable performance;  
recap:  
This is why we have dedicated a specific 
-  transparent  governance,  directed 
-  recognisability  and  authoritativeness  in  section to our commitment to and focus on 
towards  controlling  and  managing 
Mediaset's  content  produced  in  house,  young  people  in  this  year's  Non-Financial 
strategic and operational risks thanks to 
much of which is broadcast live;   Statement.  This  applies  both  to  young 
firmly established dialogue with financial 
people as the audience of our programmes, 
-  professionalism, ability in relations with  markets, institutions and authorities. 
the  target  of  awareness-raising,  positive, 
the  business  customers  of  our  sales 
All these factors combined enable us to be  educational and informative messages – as 
houses,  which  are  confirmed  market 
included in FTSE4Good for the second year  the  social  responsibility  of  broadcasters 
leaders thanks to a unique cross-media 
running.  This  basket  of  stocks  relates  to  demands – and as professionals we wish to 
offering, at the cutting edge in terms of 
companies  characterised  by  sustainable  offer work opportunities and collaboration. It 
using new technology, from addressable 
business management.   also applies to students who wish to take on 
advertising to programmatic;  
the challenge of training and specialisation 
-  constant  focus  on  minors,  diversity,  All this reinforces the attention that Mediaset  pathways in our Master's and internships.  
protecting women and commitment to  has  always  assigned  to  the  coming 
4 