Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 4 ▪ Effectiveness and sustainability of the broadcasting and commercial offering 
and preserving a shared historical memory,  content  that  the  users  like  are  the  schedule, listener target and cast of artists) 
to public attention.  responsibility  of  the  Programme  Schedule  and  quantitative  (for  example:  duration, 
and  Distribution  General  Management  in  hours  of  product,  hourly/total  cost,  etc.) 
Holocaust Memorial Day, 8 March, 25 April, 2 
association  with  Content  General  television product guidelines and objectives 
June  and  25  November  have  therefore 
Management.   are defined. 
become  components  in  a  calendar  of 
communication based on historic transitions  These two departments together with the TV  The Entertainment Department guarantees 
and social achievements. Alongside this, a  Committee approve the projects.  that the product is always in line with the 
decision was made to present a position on  values the group wishes to convey and which 
Once  the  broadcasting  lines  on  which  to 
environmental  issues,  the  horror  of  are included in its Code of Ethics.  
build the entertainment of Mediaset channels 
contemporary  genocide  and  war,  gender 
in  Italy  have  been  decided,  the  relevant  Lastly, constant sharing of the project and 
equality  and  on  the  values  of  social 
Product  Area  –  in  this  case,  the  shared selection of programming make sure 
connection and mutual respect. 
Entertainment Department – proceeds to the  that  broadcast  content  meets  the  quality 
Rete4 believes that part of a TV channel’s  selection of projects of interest through an  expectations of TV users.  
responsibility is to express a world view and  analysis  of  the  market  of  reference  and 
To further demonstrate the quality of the 
build a community, above all by employing  monitoring to make sure they are in keeping 
entertainment product, some examples are 
its own voice.  with the broadcasting lines in the codified 
programmes like "Striscia la Notizia", "le Iene" 
regulations  “Manual  of  Audiovisual  and 
The Mediaset Group in Italy has managed to  and "Forum" which, still with the objective of 
Radiophonic Services”.  
attract audiences from every age group –  entertaining their audience, at the same time 
with  a  particular  focus  on  the  coming  This  manual  guides  the  dissemination  of  address social and contemporary topics. 
generation – and social class, thanks to its  content following the rules for programming, 
television  programme  scheduling  and  protection  of  minors,  business     
selection of programmes capable of meeting  communication,  equal  treatment,  privacy 
all TV viewers’ demands.   and radiophonic regulations.  
The broadcasting strategies that have led to  At  the  same  time,  both  qualitative 
the  success  of  Mediaset  channels  in  Italy  (broadcasting characteristics such as type of 
through the dissemination of products and  programme, positioning on the programme 
72 