Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 4 ▪ Effectiveness and sustainability of the broadcasting and commercial offering 
Television series and films   choice with the channel that must broadcast  Group and availability of the product after an 
the product.  exclusive  initial  window  for  the  SVOD 
Mediaset Group broadcasts TV series that 
operators. 
appeal to all audiences. When it selects TV  The Mediaset Group’s TV series department 
series the group adheres to the broadcasting  in  Italy  constantly  strives  to  improve  the  Through its subsidiaries Medusa, Taodue and 
guidelines set and shared with the company’s  quality of content, broadening the selection  Medset,  in  the  field  of  entertainment  the 
top management, in addition to identifying  of its suppliers and turning to an ever larger  Group ensures production and distribution of 
products that have the potential to reach the  number of external production companies,  films and TV series.  
established target audience.   not to mention various screenwriters.  
For the creative line of Taodue and Medset, 
When  selecting  products,  the  TV  series  This opening toward the market has led the  this  is  conceived  by  the  Chief  Executive 
department evaluates the products together  Group  to  receive  and  assess  about  400  Officer, who through continuous exchange 
with the Content Department and company  original projects each year, a number that is  with  Mediaset  Group  broadcasting  line 
top  management  working  closely  with  deemed sufficient to fully satisfy Mediaset’s  managers,  guarantees  the  alignment  of 
product  marketing  in  an  attempt  to  find  needs.  content creation activities with the values 
stories that continue to interest Mediaset’s  and policies established by the organisation 
The  Mediaset  Group  also  possesses  the 
historic audience and at the same time try to  itself. 
know-how and the organisation for selecting 
broaden its user base.  
projects and developing the production of  Likewise,  the  alignment  of  the  Mediaset 
Specifically,  the  TV  series  department  popular drama series. These products are  Group’s ethical principles and the quality of 
chooses and develops stories that celebrate  commissioned from major national partners  content  are  guaranteed  through  the 
the  principles  and  positive  values  of  the  and,  in  some  cases,  are  sold  abroad  or  Company  Leaders’  and  Mediaset  Group 
company  today  and  consequently  also  leveraged  via  the  web  channel,  thus  broadcasting  line  managers’  constant 
reflect the ethical principles of the Group,  contributing to covering production costs.   monitoring of the production and creation of 
never opposing them and thus guaranteeing  artistic  content.  Even  if  not  official,  this 
In 2019 the first experiments began in co-
a product that all audiences can enjoy.   process is expressed in the modus operandi 
financing agreements with SVOD operators 
employed  for  products  created  both 
The considerations on the choice of product  (Amazon  and  Netflix)  on  original 
internally and externally. 
also take into account the option to have  productions.  Specifically,  the  agreements 
content  not  suitable  for  an  audience  of  involved partial financing by the Mediaset 
minors; in this case, one opts for a shared 
73 