Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 4 ▪ Effectiveness and sustainability of the broadcasting and commercial offering 
The  distribution  of  the  multimedia  and  Domani è un altro giorno, by Simone Spada  with Fabio De Luigi (EUR 7.5 mil.), with the 
television  content  produced  by  Medset  is  with Marco Giallini and Valerio Mastandrea;  third  highest  takings  among  international 
managed by a third-party company, as well  mystery/thrillers like Into the Labyrinth by  films.    
as  through  the  Group’s  internal  channels,  Donato Carrisi with Tony Servillo and Dustin 
Medusa's role and results are therefore highly 
through  specific  distribution  licences  that  Hoffman; comedy/horrors such as Sono solo 
significant: again underscoring the correct 
satisfy  the  legal  requirements  (e.g.  film  fantasmi  with  Christian  De  Sica;  these  all 
strategic positioning of the company, which 
classification).  represent  a  constant  search  for  new 
has always been a landmark in this nation's 
inspiration,  able to  attract an increasingly 
Medusa Film is in charge of the distribution  cinema. 
demanding audience.  
of (mainly Italian) cinematographic works. 
 
The company produces and purchases films  The thread that runs through all of them 
exploiting the entire life cycle of the product:  remains Medusa’s mission for Italian cinema, 
News and Sports 
from the programming in cinema releases to  which  simultaneously  means  guaranteed 
the sale of television rights in all their various  selection, production and distribution of the  In  2019,  Mediaset  developed  and 
forms.   best  products,  in  an  attempt  to  promote  consolidated its integrated system model for 
national and local artistic and professional  News and Sports across its networks and 
Medusa’s  line-up,  constantly  agreed  upon 
excellence.  In  order  to  face  up  to  the  multimedia platforms. 
with  Mediaset  Group  in  order  to  meet 
competition  of  foreign  products,  this 
programming requirements, focuses on the  The system is based on several elements. 
commitment  must  always  be  ensured 
Italian product in the “comedy” genre. Actors 
according to top industry standards. 
The first of these is the three national news 
and  directors  like  Paolo  Genovese  and 
networks: Tg5, Tg4, Studio Aperto and the 
Checco Zalone – who in the past few years  The  value  of  the  decisions  taken  was 
Sport Mediaset agency; each of them has 
have helped to redefine the contemporary  demonstrated by the highest takings of the 
specific  characteristics  and  is  geared 
concept of Italian comedy – demonstrate the  year in the Italian film category: Once Upon a 
towards a certain type of audience: 
extreme emphasis on a type of film that has  Time in Bethlehem with Ficarra and Picone 
always shaped the history of our cinema.   (EUR 13.4 mil. in the year; 15.3 in total), which 
•  Tg5  is  characterised  by  its  leading 
marked  the  return  of  the  famous  Sicilian 
2019 was also marked by films which can’t be  position, completeness and impartiality in 
comedy  duo.    Another  great  result,  the 
considered  as  representing  the  comedy  its way of making news across the board;  
extent of which was fairly unpredictable, was 
genre  alone,  however:  dramas  such  as 
When Mom Is Away by Alessandro Genovesi,  •  Studio  Aperto  is  a  news  network  for 
74 