Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 4 ▪ Effectiveness and sustainability of the broadcasting and commercial offering 
young  people,  agile  and  brief  which  in  the  Mediaset  network  information  •  late  evening  on  Canale  5  with  the 
emphasises the main stories and current  structure, from the Videonews agency, which  productive partnership of Supercinema, 
events;  has  its  own  staff  of  journalists  that  may  X-style, #Hype and Confessione Reporter 
sometimes  be  supplemented  though  on Rete 4; 
•  Tg4,  with  a  complete  restyling  of  the 
collaboration  with  journalists  from  News 
evening  news  as  of  September  2018, 
Mediaset (see specials or election evenings).  The Meteo.it Mediaset brand represents  a 
attracts Rete 4’s typical audience (older 
significant presence in multimedia content. 
viewers).  The  main  infotainment  and  journalistic  It’s the leading Italian weather forecasting 
•  Sport Mediaset covers sports events and  analysis productions from 2019 are indicated  system, spread across TV, the web, mobile 
commentary and was set up in August  below:   and radio, and is completely free of charge. 
2018 after the Premium Sport offer came 
•  Canale  5  daytime  with  Mattino  5,  Meteo.it  is  a  highly  renowned  and 
to an end. 
Pomeriggio 5, Verissimo and Domenica  authoritative national scientific leader, made 
Studio Aperto, Tg4 and Sport Mediaset all  Live, leaders for  their own commercial  up of a staff of specialists, journalists and 
reference  the  News  Mediaset  agency  for  target audiences;  meteorologists, as shown by over 10 million 
supply of content. The agency was set up in  users  who  follow  the  Mediaset  brand's 
•  “Live – Non è la D’Urso” came to the early 
March 2010 and guarantees uniformity and  forecasts  each  day  across  the  various 
evening  slot  on  the  flagship  channel 
completeness of information.  multimedia platforms.  
precisely in 2019; 
A new transition occurred in June 2019:   six  The  service  offers  25  different  television 
 
agencies  (TG4,  Studio  Aperto,  Tgcom24,  productions per day, 365 days a year, to 
Sport Mediaset, Pagina 101 and RMC) were  •  Rete 4 in prime  time,  a  new strategic  meet  all  the  needs  of  the  different  TV 
closed  and  converted  into  brands.  The  challenge in terms of Group Information,  channels in the Mediaset Group broadcast 
Agency ceased merely to be a provider of  which  gave  rise  to  many  successful  offering, totalling about 9,200 productions 
reports  for  the  agencies  and  became  a  programmes: “Quarta repubblica”,“CR4 -  per year. 
producer and distributor of multi-platform  La  repubblica  delle  donne”,  “Dritto  e 
In  particular,  special  live  reports  are 
content through its brands.  Rovescio”, “Fuori dal coro”, as well as the 
broadcast during exceptional bad weather 
evergreen  “Quarto  grado”,  which  has 
The infotainment and in-depth news analysis  always been a leading product for the  events, providing a public service:  
productions represent another key element  network; 
75 