Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 4 ▪ Effectiveness and sustainability of the broadcasting and commercial offering 
channels,  but  also  for  the  world  of  the specific characteristics of the mission.  always with attention, which is also ensured 
infotainment. These products also fall under  These  needs  are  monitored  through  a  by the coordination of the editors, to the 
the Videonews agency.  constant dialogue with the public institutions  following: issues of social inclusion of the 
set in place in different countries (or bodies  most vulnerable (at the centre of public, and 
This structure of the Information Area allows 
associated to them) that may channel and  televisual,  debate  as  never  before), 
for a continual and necessary care in the 
provide  the  information  needed  to  fully  protecting  the  environment,  the  risks  of 
research and development of a news story. 
guarantee the safety of the field reporters.  climate change and the opportunities offered 
This is guaranteed by verification of reliable 
by a transition to a green economy.        
and true sources while constantly keeping an  By  striving  for  an  objective  and  effective 
eye on contemporary events, all in order to  debate on the arguments addressed in the  Plus, some programmes like Quarto Grado, 
guarantee the audience a useful and up-to- different TV programmes, there is an attempt  Mattino  5  or  Pomeriggio  5  perform  an 
date service.  to  develop  a  settlement  that  may  be  ongoing  support  activity  for  social  and 
representative of freedom of expression (in  awareness campaigns (for example, against 
To  this  end,  Mediaset  as  a  company 
any case guaranteed by the professionalism  the  abuse  of  women  or  against  fraud 
encourages  the  fight  against  the 
of the Editors of agencies, who have a trust  perpetrated  against  society’s  more 
phenomenon of fake news and celebrates 
relationship  with  the  Broadcaster),  of  the  vulnerable categories like the elderly or the 
International Fact-Checking Day, which was 
plurality of voices and the completeness of  disabled).  In  particular,  the  show  Quarto 
held on 2 April in 2019. 
the news. To pursue these objectives and  Grado is capable of channelling important 
improve the qualitative performance of the  and  necessary  messages  for  the 
The creation of the services follows all the 
products,  it  proved  fundamental  to  development of legal investigations. All these 
regulations in the area of occupational health 
implement  a  convergence  between  activities  have  led  to  active  audience 
and  safety.  This  is  first  and  foremost  to 
television and the different online media.  participation,  at  the  same  time 
guarantee the safety of all employees and 
demonstrating  a  broad  consensus  and  a 
collaborators of the Mediaset Group, and in 
The  agency  editors  have  a  function  of 
growing awareness of these topics. 
the specific case of news, to ensure current, 
coordination, but with absolute respect for 
true and complete information.  
the freedom and autonomy of the individual  In  2019,  collaboration  with  the  European 
broadcasts,  written,  conducted  and  Commission was renewed and gave rise to a 
Specifically, the field reporters in war zones 
organised by independent and autonomous  series  of  evening  programmes  entitled 
or  areas  of  high  risk  are  guaranteed 
writing  and  editorial  working  groups.  The  “Giovane  Europa”,  broadcast  on  the 
modulated  integrative  coverage  based  on 
broadcasts  deal  with  current  events,  but  TGCOM24 channel. The rights for the format 
77 