Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 4 ▪ Effectiveness and sustainability of the broadcasting and commercial offering 
created  were  granted  to  the  European  Monzese  and  Rome  Palatino  production  which joins R101, Radio 105, Virgin Radio Italy 
Commission  for  its  own  communication  centres and in the 9 regional agencies. The  and Radio Subasio. 
platforms. The same year saw the production  newsrooms of the 2 production centres are 
Each of these radio stations is characterised 
of the project resulting from the European  synchronised, allowing all users to access the 
by  its  own  line  expressed  through  radio 
Parliament’s  2018  Call  for  Proposals.  It  same content, regardless of location. 
programs/formats  (for  example  radio  of 
developed  three  formats,  one  in 
  young target programmes -Radio105-; "flow" 
collaboration  with  Mediaset  España, 
(like format) radio -R101-, "vertical" radio -
broadcast during the year:  The  project  to  digitise  productions  by 
Virgin Radio; “elite” radio with high-profile 
Videonews, including Mattino5, Pomeriggio5, 
-Cavoletti  da  Bruxelles  -  30  episodes  -  target-RMC; “family” radio with distinctive 
DomenicaLive and Fuori dal Coro, began in 
TGCOM24 
elements  from  Italian  tradition-Radio 
the final quarter of 2018. The first release in 
-Insieme Juntos - 8 episodes - TGCOM24 / 
Subasio). 
Canal4 (Spain)  this project occurred in May 2019. 
-Dov’è l’Europa?  - 4 episodes – FOCUS  In  relation  to  this  line,  maximum 
To allow its services to be used, the Mediaset 
independence and plurality of expression is 
Group  monitors  and  makes  an  effort  to 
With a view to optimising the Group’s news 
guaranteed  following  the  industry 
ensure that every single one of its viewers is 
products in terms of both creation and use, it 
regulations (Radio Television Consolidated 
placed in the optimal condition to be able to 
has progressively implemented an agency 
Act)  and  the  current  company  guidelines 
receive the news and stay informed of what 
and  commentary  digitisation  project  by 
that require daily monitoring of the activity 
is going on in the world. Specifically, TG5, in 
introducing technology based on the DALET 
carried out by the artistic resources (radio 
its main edition at 8 PM provides a subtitling 
GALAXY  platform.  This  allows  sharing, 
speakers and guests), the topics addressed 
service for the hearing impaired in order to 
management and broadcasting of all content 
in  the  relative  sources  as  well  as  the 
make accessing the content easier. 
produced by the agency in the format of files, 
advertising content aired. 
eliminating  tape  cassettes.  The  digital 
 
newsroom thus allows for a better, faster and  The Mediaset Group undertakes to maximise 
cheaper way to use all the materials that are  Radio  enjoyment  of  the  radio  product  with  a 
made directly or found online.   widespread  dissemination  both  in 
The Mediaset Group has again expanded its 
geographical and target audience terms, also 
In 2019, the Dalet system came to be fully up  commercial  radio  wing  through  the 
through  systematic  maintenance  and 
and running on the News in the Cologno  acquisition  of  Radio  Montecarlo  in  2018, 
enhancement activity on the radio broadcast 
78 