Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 4 ▪ Effectiveness and sustainability of the broadcasting and commercial offering 
networks,  particularly  safeguarding  minors  contacted by the people employed in the  available on its own website, through its 
by working on the language used on air and  company for that purpose.  mobile  apps  (iOS  and  Android)  and 
following the Radio Television Consolidated  through  an  innovative  TV  app  for 
 
Act and the Group Code of Ethics.  hbbtv/mhp devices. The offering allows 
live streaming of TV channels, including 
Innovation in defining and 
Also to guarantee maximum enjoyment and 
the possibility to watch live programmes 
disseminating content 
access  for  today’s  listeners  and  with  the 
from the start (the Live Restart function), 
objective  to  acquire  new  ones,  not  to 
In the consolidated context of multimedia  and catch-up on demand for most free-
mention  to  maximise  the  benefits  arising 
video offering, the Mediaset Group is working  to-air television programming. Users can 
from  using  advertising,  the  radiophonic 
through a dedicated organisational structure  watch  entire  episodes  or  choose  from 
department  undertakes  to  constantly  and 
to create services and content deployable  hundreds  of  clips  taken  daily  from  TV 
progressively  develop  the  multimedia 
across  all  the  main  connected  digital  programmes and ad hoc content created 
activities,  creating  services  and  content 
platforms  (desktop  devices,  mobile  and  for  mobile  use.  The  integration  of  the 
employable  through  the  main  digital 
wearable devices, tablets, smart TVs, etc.)  Digital  Content  Factory  with  editorial 
platforms  and  media,  like  smartphones, 
and to promote digital extension initiatives  programme offices has made it possible 
tablets and smart TV, carrying out specific 
for free-to-air programmes (TV and Radio)  to  achieve  a  wide  range  of  various 
control activities for these purposes. 
as well as to make its broadcasting products,  formats on the different digital platforms, 
like  news  and  entertainment,  accessible  fully in line with the editorial approach. 
The  content  to  be  posted  on  websites, 
across  all  digital  platforms,  consequently 
including  that  provided  directly  by  the  Total  Mediaset  Properties  Video  Content 
improving advertising revenue. 
listeners, is supervised in order to make sure  consumption  amounted  to  around  1.4 
it is suitable to be issued; with respect to the  billion over the year, representing 68% 
The Mediaset digital product range is divided 
content users make themselves, a disclaimer  growth  on the previous  year, with 213 
into two main thematic areas:  
is filled out, which for minors must be signed  million hours of video generated in total 
by the individual with custody over them.   •  Video Hub: the chosen location for video  (Source Webtrekk).    
content  consumption  is  the  revamped 
To guarantee users' privacy, the messaging  •  Information  Hub:  the  Information  hub, 
Mediaset Play platform.  
systems  used  hide  the  mobile  telephone  under the TGCOM24 brand, is internally 
numbers  of  listeners,  who  can  only  be    Online since June 2018, the platform has  divided into News (under the TGCOM24 
been  completely  redesigned  and  is  heading), Sports Information (under the 
79 