Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 4 ▪ Effectiveness and sustainability of the broadcasting and commercial offering 
Sportmediaset  heading)  and  Weather  Facebook pages, over 8 million followers on 
(Ciaopeople  publishing  group)  and 
Information (under the Meteo.it brand).  Twitter accounts and more than 12 million 
SuperguidaTV,  the  most  important  Italian 
followers on Instagram accounts. 
  During  the  year,  the  Information  hub  digital TV guide. 
audience saw significant growth, reaching  These agreements make the best use of and  Social  Media  Network  activity  allows  the 
an average Total Audience of 2,175,000  promote  the  content  chosen  by  R.T.I.,  attention  of  the  active  audience  to  be 
unique  daily  users  in  2019  (Source  captured on various channels, differing by 
allowing another  audience to be  reached, 
Audiweb 2.0, overall perimeter with TAL), 
age and composition. 
available according to the different needs of 
positioning  itself  under  the  TGCOM24 
the  broadcaster  or  sales  house.  Taking 
brand in third place in the Italian digital  The  distribution  of  exclusive  content, 
external distribution into account as well, the 
information market.  previews and live streaming promotes the TV 
video view total exceeds 1.5 billion videos for 
schedule  and  expands  programme 
In addition, the series of Mediaset Apps, with  the year.  awareness  to  a  digital  audience,  creating 
a  monthly  average  of  6.0  million  unique  Note  that  Auditel  measurement  of  digital  interaction opportunities. Short programme 
users recorded in 2019, ranks in the first two  audience on different devices began in 2019.  extracts accompanied by a direct link to our 
places  on  the  Italian  broadcasting  scene  This  measurement  will  lead  to  Auditel  websites  attract  traffic  to  Mediaset  Play, 
(Source Audiweb 2.0 media Jan-Nov 2019).  increasing the viewing numbers of videos on 
identifying the Total Audience in 2021. 
In  this  context,  the  free  Tgcom24  App  the platform. 
As  far  as  Radio  is  concerned,  2019  saw 
exceeded 6.0 million downloads, the weather 
further revamping of some of our stations’ 
forecasting  service  (Meteo.it)  reached  11.2  2019 saw the creation of the first synergies 
main digital destinations, with the creation in 
million downloads with its App and finally the  between  Mediaset  Play’s  AVOD  and 
particular of the new RMC and Radio Subasio 
Sportmediaset  App  reached  4.1  million 
Infinity’s  SVOD.  This  will  generate  new 
websites as well as the release of the new 
downloads.  (Source:  App  Annie  at  31 
sources of revenue connected to the free-to-
United  Music  App,  which  has  one  of  the 
December 2019)  
air networks’ digital business, but also and 
biggest free music offerings. 
above all in terms of organisation, to create a 
Distribution  agreements  were  confirmed 
In  relation  to  Social  Media  Network  shared customer journey aiming to identify 
with all main partners in 2019: IOL (which 
presence, Mediaset confirmed itself as one of  free-to-air/pay users as individual Mediaset 
combines  the  top  2  portals  Libero  and 
the leading European media companies in  customers. 
Virgilio),  with  Microsoft  (msn.it)  Citynews 
creating engagement with its communities: 
 
(Today.it and all vertical websites), Fanpage 
41 million total likes on Mediaset network 
80 