Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 4 ▪ Effectiveness and sustainability of the broadcasting and commercial offering 
that  defines  the  broadcasting  strategy 
together  with  the  management  of  the 
Content  Department.  The  broadcasting 
strategy  is  then  sent  to  the  executive 
producers  who  are  responsible  for 
monitoring and implementing it.  
  On a weekly basis the Content Commission 
sees  to  and  monitors  the  content  of  the 
  creation of content in line with corporate 
programmes  distributed  on  the  group’s 
values as well as the application of ethical 
different  channels.  Live  programming  is 
The group’s offering in Spain 
rules that pervade all company activities is 
evaluated and monitored daily in meetings 
ensured.  This  way,  independent 
The Mediaset Group in Spain carefully and  attended  by  the  directors  of  the  specific 
broadcasting  is  guaranteed,  also  through 
meticulously  oversees  the  production  and  channel  and  executive  producers  of  the 
internal mechanisms so as not to meet with 
distribution  of  its  content  to  offer  a  programmes. Later, once the programmes 
any external interference in the generation of 
qualitatively  valid  product  capable  of  have  been  created  and  presented  by  the 
content. 
representing excellence on the market.   producers, they are evaluated on the basis of 
compliance with guidelines, Code of Ethics 
Moreover,  thanks  to  the  plurality  and 
Both the entertainment and news content  and respect for human rights, the rights of 
diversity of the sources of information as well 
refer to “Ley 7/2010, de 31 de marzo, General  minors and the right to privacy. Once this 
as involvement of individuals from various 
de  la  Comunicación  Audiovisual”  which  evaluation has been made, the results are 
sectors of the company, Mediaset España 
regulates  the  audiovisual  sector,  internal  sent to the production companies so that 
integrates  various  tendencies  and  opinion 
procedures and regulations as well as the  they  adjust  the  content.  For  children’s 
into  its  information  and  entertainment 
Group Code of Ethics.  programmes,  in  addition  to  the  checks 
programs  to  offer  quality  audiovisual 
mentioned above, the programme is sent to 
Indeed, constantly living up to principles like  services  that  are  representative  of  all  TV 
the Child Protection Authority for approval 
plurality and diversity of information sources,  viewers. 
prior to its broadcast. 
freedom  of  expression  and  journalistic 
In any event, quality in creation of content is 
independence,  impartiality,  non- Innovation  in  creation  of  content  is  yet 
guaranteed by the Broadcasting Committee 
discrimination  and  accurate  information,  another fundamental factor for maintaining 
81 