Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 4 ▪ Effectiveness and sustainability of the broadcasting and commercial offering 
leadership in the audiovisual industry. That’s  implemented  a  pyramid  control  system  the  Mediaset  España  agency  checks  its 
why  the  New  Project  Area  is  always  in  where the content generated is evaluated  sources  thoroughly.  For  this  purpose,  the 
contact with the producers and distributors  and monitored constantly.   following activities have been put in place: 
to stay abreast of what’s new nationally and 
To improve the dissemination of the content,  •  Weekly broadcasting committee with the 
internationally.  
the Mediaset Group in Spain has renewed its  company’s top managers to check the 
To evaluate new projects, meetings are held  platforms, thus managing to disseminate its  news. 
where the content production team attend as  products also on Smart TVs, supporting all 
•  Daily  broadcasting  meetings  to  review 
well  as  the  Production  area  director  and  advanced  DRM  formats  and  optimising 
the content to be broadcast as well as the 
General  Content  Director  of  Mediaset  performance  for  mobile  devices, 
content already broadcast, analysing that 
España. During the meetings the different  guaranteeing  high-definition  use  and 
which had not been adapted to the set 
market trends are taken into consideration in  allowing multi-device use.  
broadcasting approach in advance. 
order  to  identify  quality  products  and 
More generally, the Mediaset Group in Spain 
services in which all subjects representative  •  Ongoing dialogue among journalists and 
can broadcast and transmit its signal with a 
of the audience are shown. 
area managers to update the information. 
coverage of 98% of the Spanish population 
Once the project has been approved, the  through 2,916 transmission or broadcasting  •  Daily check of the broadcast of content 
Antenna  Division  takes  action  to  develop  centres.  subject to intellectual property. 
programming strategies: identifying the best 
Furthermore, programming is made available  •  Citations of sources when they are public 
premiere  dates,  establishing  the  content 
to the audience through the web platform, a  and allowed to quote them. 
marketing  strategy,  defining  the  launch 
tool  that  promotes  access  to  audiovisual 
campaigns,  setting  up  the  communication  •  Confidentiality of sources when required. 
content  and  allows  interaction  and 
activity being broadcast and more generally 
monitoring of ratings for the programmes 
defining all the activities linked to positioning  For accessibility to content, Mediaset España 
and  series  offered  through  analysis  of 
of the programme in order to get the best  has maintained its commitment year after 
comments.  
performances.  year to render its programming accessible to 
individuals with visual or hearing disabilities, 
Finally,  given  the  immediacy  of  the 
To ensure the creation of content is in line 
as  a  tool  for  the  social  and  cultural 
information  delivered  with  increasing 
with company values and the Code of Ethics, 
integration of these groups. 
frequency through social networking sites, 
Mediaset  in  Spain  has  defined  and 
82 