Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 4 ▪ Effectiveness and sustainability of the broadcasting and commercial offering 
We would highlight that, in 2019, Mediaset  spaces  on  Mediaset  television  channels  Another  way  of  advertising  and  selling 
España broadcast 43,569 hours of subtitled  (general-interest and specific).  products via television is product placement. 
programmes, about 1,476 hours of broadcast  This form of advertising sales takes place 
Advertising  sales  take  place  through 
translated  with  sign  language  and  2,426  through  the  definition  and  creation  of 
different formats: 
hours with audio description.  projects  in  collaboration  with  the  client. 
There  are  two  forms  available:  product 
•  Display advertising: commercials during 
 
insertion in programmes or the construction 
advertising breaks within or adjacent to 
of programmes fully financed by the client. 
4.2   RESPONSIBLE   programmes; 
ADVERTISING AND   •  Sponsored programmes (such as weather  From an internal control point of view, the 
Group  takes  special  care  to  select  which 
MARKETING  forecasts); 
advertising campaigns are broadcast. To this 
The Mediaset Group operates through two  •  Long  video:  40-60-90-second  videos  end, the main criterion is compliance with 
fully-owned  advertising  sales  agencies  in  created  for  the  client  and  aiming  to  current legislation on advertising.  
Italy:  Publitalia  '80,  the  sales  house  that  explain the product in greater depth than 
Compliance  verification  is  applied  in  full 
exclusively  serves the free-to-air Mediaset  a classic commercial; 
respect  for  the  advertiser’s  autonomy  in 
networks; and Digitalia '08, the sales house 
•  Short  format  characterised  by  the 
creative and communication choices and is 
specialised in selling advertising space on the 
prestigious  position  and  the  graphics  aimed at protecting the company (as well as 
pay-TV distribution platform.  
frame  (Top,  Best  last  position,  Brand  the  advertiser)  with  respect  to  the  legal 
The  Group  also  owns  a  50%  interest  in  video);  status of the communication to be broadcast. 
Mediamond, a joint-venture with Mondadori,  •  Animated overlays in programs (inlogo).  This  is  expressed  in  the  preliminary 
which sells advertising space on the Mediaset  assessment of what might be the "critical" 
Group  websites  and  radio,  on  Mondadori  The main forms of display advertising sales  elements of the message (as well as in the 
websites, and via third-party publishers.   are organised by programme and by sets of  identification, where possible, of the actions 
commercials  (target  modules),  while  a  necessary  to  ensure  that  the  advertising 
The  Group's  advertising  is  based  on  the  relative  price  list  is  created  for  special  complies with the rules). 
strategies  and  commercial  policies  from 
positions  within  commercial  breaks  (very 
various periods of the year which define the  These control procedures aim to avoid any 
first, first, second and last).  
sales methods to investors for all advertising  complaints  that  could  lead  to  the  early 
83 