Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 4 ▪ Effectiveness and sustainability of the broadcasting and commercial offering 
termination of the campaign, as well as fines  therefore  also  of  the  target  audience  for  Chamber having met after those dates) for 
and civil/penal sanctions against (also) the  which the advertising is intended.  the tally of the Group’s radio self-advertising 
broadcaster.  spots (Radio 105). 
Note that, on 8 January 2018, Agcom closed 
Refusal  to  broadcast  the  advertising  proceedings,  with  a  warning  against  In  November  2018,  Agcom  brought  the 
message  can  only  occur  in  cases  where  proceeding  with  the  practice  challenged,  proceedings to an end, imposing penalties of 
obvious critical issues in the communication  concerning  advertising  overcrowding  EUR 20,658 to Canale5, EUR 20,658 to Italia1 
of a legal nature cannot be avoided.  brought against Italia1, Canale 5 and Rete 4  and EUR 20,658 to Rete4. The penalties were 
in  September  2017  with  reference  to  appealed with the Regional Administrative 
Another  assessment  criterion  that  would 
exceeding the crowding limit for Group radio  Court (TAR) in January 2019.  
affect  an  advertising  campaign  being 
(Radio 101) self-promotion messages. 
broadcast  on  Mediaset  networks  is  the  On  16  April  2019,  the  Lazio  Regional 
conformity of the message to the publishing  These resolutions were promptly appealed  Administrative  Court  rejected  the  three 
policy of the networks.  and an application for interim relief was filed  appeals against the Agcom challenges and 
by R.T.I. with the competent administrative  on 16 July 2019 the sentences were appealed 
With  respect  to  its  target  audience,  the 
judge.  with the Council of State. 
Mediaset Group applies strict selection on 
advertising  that  relates  to  or  belongs  to  R.T.I. promptly took it upon itself to bring its  The  Mediaset  Group  is  committed  to 
certain product sectors which - even if lawful  conduct in line with the new stance of Agcom  broadcasting messages that have more than 
and  legitimately  publishable  -  could  be  outlined in the above-mentioned resolutions.  just a commercial purpose. To that effect, 
considered  as  not  compliant  with  the  Specifically, R.T.I. began to bring its conduct  Mediaset  is  a  founding  member  of  the 
publishing policy (e.g. the Group does not  into line on 7 February 2018 (in the absence  Fondazione  Pubblicità  Progresso, 
advertise  weapons,  funeral  services,  legal  of  a  deadline  set  by  the  resolutions  represented by Publitalia 80 along with the 
cannabis, dating sites for sexual purposes) or  themselves), thus complying with the time  major players in communication in Italy. This 
in relation to the content of the message  limits  for  processing  the  application  for  foundation aims to contribute to solving the 
itself (e.g. vulgarity, violence, etc.).  interim  relief.  Nevertheless,  in  April  2018  civil, educational and moral problems of the 
Agcom challenged Italia1, Canale5 and Rete4  community by placing communication at the 
This editorial judgement varies depending on 
with  regard  to  their  advertising  service of society. 
the  characteristics  of  the  medium  and 
overcrowding during the months of January 
and  February  2018  (despite  the  Council 
84 