Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 4 ▪ Effectiveness and sustainability of the broadcasting and commercial offering 
Pubblicità  Progresso  promotes  training  The most significant developments are based  In 2019 these Guidelines were enhanced, in 
initiatives  on  social  communication  at  on the analysis and use of Big Data; this  compliance  with  the  new  European 
leading  Italian  universities;  it  sponsors  activity  offers  increasingly  targeted  and  standards,  with  indications  concerning 
events, exhibitions and initiatives dedicated  effective advertising products.   “environmental protection” and a new Code 
to important social issues; it sponsors social  of Ethics for the technology sector. 
An example of this is the new ADD+PLUS and 
communication  campaigns  carried  out  by 
ADD+OVER  formats  which  allow  the  In recent years, Publiespaña S.A.U. undertook 
non-profit  organisations;  and  it  holds  the 
segmentation of the audience and more in- an internal reorganisation process to create 
Festival of Social Communication for training 
depth  content  depending  on  the  product  as uniform a structure as possible with the 
and public educational purposes. In addition 
advertised through mini-websites accessible  Directorate-General for Contents; the central 
to paying a membership fee, the sponsoring 
via interaction with internet-connected TV;  figure in this reorganisation is the Director-
members provide their work free of charge 
these cases enable a report revealing the  General,  who  is  responsible  for  the 
for the implementation of the Foundation's 
results of the campaigns in detail.  management  and  sale  of  advertising  and 
activities. 
constantly works in close liaison with the 
The Mediaset Group in Spain believes that 
Every year, Pubblicità Progresso draws the  Chief Executive Officer.  
the responsible emission and management of 
attention  of  the  authorities  and  public 
advertising are both fundamental elements  For the purposes of the internal supervisory 
opinion to create greater awareness on a 
of  the  business  and  has  therefore  system,  a  commercial  policy  has  been 
specific  theme  by  implementing 
implemented  specific  management  and  implemented  which  allows  improved 
communication  campaigns  using 
control mechanisms.   monitoring  of  the  advertising  content 
contributions from promoting partners; by 
prepared. This is examined and monitored 
way of example, past themes have included 
Publiespaña  S.A.U.  manages  the  Group's 
weekly by three Directorates General (Sales, 
campaigns on anti-smoking, organ donation, 
advertising  activities  in  strict  compliance 
Digital Media, Marketing, Operation and Sale 
gender  equality,  anti-racism,  sustainability 
with the applicable legislation and with the 
services),  who  monitor  the  correct 
and volunteer work. 
specific  guidelines  defined  by  the 
broadcasting of the content. 
Association  for  the  Self-Regulation  of 
In terms of product innovation, Publitalia '80 
Commercial  Communication,  which  the  These  Directorates  work  in  close 
has created a new internal structure for the 
company has been part of since 1995.   collaboration  with  the  Group  Legal 
research  and  development  of  exploiting 
Department. 
internet-connected TVs to offer the market 
new advertising products.  
85 