Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 4 ▪ Effectiveness and sustainability of the broadcasting and commercial offering 
4.3  PROTECTION OF  indicating  any  programmes  “that  may  •  the  offering  dedicated  specifically  to 
damage  the  physical,  mental  or  moral  minors, thanks to 24-hour programming 
MINORS 
development of minors”, providing users  of the three free-to-air channels Boing 
The  Mediaset  Group  has  always  been  with detailed information;  (from 2004), Cartoonito (from 2011) and 
attentive to the protection of minors20. For    Boing Plus (from July 2019). 
•  notification of the nature and contents of 
this  purpose,  the  company  continuously 
The Mediaset Group is also committed to 
the  transmission,  linear  and  non-linear, 
assesses  transmissions  and  pays  close 
promoting responsible TV consumption by 
free of charge and pay per view, using 
attention to the impact that these can have 
users, planning periodic campaigns on the 
coloured dots at the beginning of each 
during a child’s developmental years. 
use of parental control, in which the viewer is 
fiction programme (film, series, TV movie, 
reminded of the possibility of activating the 
Below are a few of the commitments that the  etc.)  and  after  each  advertising  break 
blocking  device  through  the  decoder 
Mediaset Group has undertaken to protect  (green dot: suitable for everyone; yellow 
settings to prevent the viewing of V.M.14 
minors:     dot:  recommended  for  children 
content potentially harmful to minors (the 
accompanied  by  an  adult;  flashing  red 
•  compliance  with  all  applicable  dot: recommended for adults; fixed red  latest was broadcast on all networks from 
regulations, including the Self-Regulation  dot: harmful for minors or prohibited for  September 2018 to the start of 2019). 
Code Concerning Television and Minors  children under 14). Further information on 
There is also a link that takes users straight to 
signed in November 2002, which commits  the  programmes  -  useful  for  directing 
the  parental  control  feature  -  and  to  the 
the Group's networks to the monitoring of  users'  choices  also  in  relation  to  the 
Committee for the Application of the Media 
programmes  offered  to  make  sure  it  protection of minors - is provided through 
and Minors Code web pages - available to 
observes  the  constraints  in  place  to  information  tools  accompanying  the 
users  on  the  Mediaset  Group  website 
protect  young  viewers.  Through  the  content (e.g. EPG for digital terrestrial, 
(www.mediasetplay.it). 
application of art. 34 of the Audiovisual  program  information  on  the  web  and 
Media  Services  Directive,  the  Mediaset  apps);  Appropriate  corporate  structures 
Group  has  implemented  a  series  of    (Directorate  for  Documentation  and 
organisational  processes  aimed  at 
Institutional  Analysis  and  Directorate  for 
assessing,  identifying  and  adequately 
                                                        
20 The Group's Code of Ethics is implemented by all Group companies except for the Mediaset Group in Spain, which operates its own code based on the parent Company's. The new Code of Ethics adopted by Mediaset S.p.A. 
and its subsidiaries in 2019 retains a specific article (Article 8 "Integrity and protection of the person") with provisions dedicated to protecting minors. It states: “The Mediaset Group rejects child labour and assigns primary 
importance to protecting minors and suppressing their exploitation in any form whatsoever, including through electronic and computer systems.” 
87 