Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 4 ▪ Effectiveness and sustainability of the broadcasting and commercial offering 
Regulation and Institutional Requirements)  current mass media.   Regulation  is  to  be  adopted  by  February 
are responsible within the Mediaset Group for  2020). 
In March 2019, the proposal to revise the 
the  dissemination  and  compliance  with 
Code was submitted to the Italian Ministry of  In  2019,  Agcom  did  not  initiate  any 
legislation for the protection of minors.  
Economic  Development,  to  initiate  the  proceedings  concerning  the  protection  of 
From the date of signing the Self-Regulation  procedure envisaged in Article 34 paragraph  minors  according  to  Article  34  of  the 
Code  Concerning  Television  and  Minors  6  of  Legislative  Decree  No.  177/2005  as  Audiovisual Media Services Directive. 
(November 2002), the Mediaset Group has  amended. 
In  April  2019,  the  penalties  imposed  by 
always  participated  via  its  own 
In anticipation of definitive approval of the  Agcom  in  2019  for  the  transmission  of 
representative (as Vice Chairman) to help the 
text, Mediaset has promoted exchange with  content unsuited to an audience of minors 
Committee implement the Code. 
other Broadcasters that aims to find common  during certain episodes of Grande Fratello 15 
This year, the Committee instituted 9 cases  ground with a view to defining television  were  contested  at  the  Lazio  Regional 
of  proceedings  against  Mediaset  content classification criteria.  Administrative Court. 
programmes.  In  two  of  these  cases, 
Also  in  2019,  Mediaset  took  part  in  the  In addition to the general principles, Mediaset 
determining  violations  of  the  Code:  one 
technical discussions on the “classification of  and the Italian subsidiaries within the Group 
episode  of  Verissimo  (interview  with  F. 
audiovisual  works  for  the  web  and  video  Code of Ethics (see also paragraph 1.3 and 
Corona)  and  one  episode  of  Pomeriggio 
games” arranged by Agcom within the co- 3.2) have also adopted a provision explicitly 
Cinque, in which certain content connected 
regulation  monitoring  body,  and  in  on the protection of minors. 
with  the  sexual  sphere  was  challenged. 
approving the definitive guidelines. 
(Another  case  of  proceedings  against 
Then there is a specific procedure, applicable 
Pomeriggio  Cinque,  pending  in  2019,  was 
The  Regulation  on  classifying  audiovisual  to the company R.T.I., the O.G. "Preliminary 
closed  in  recognition  of  the  violation  in 
works for the web and video games applies  checks  for  the  issue  and  publication  of 
January 2020.) 
to audiovisual works primarily intended for  content",  aimed  at  preventing  the 
distribution  on  electronic  communication  dissemination  of  images  not  suitable  for 
In Italy, Mediaset has also been part of the 
services or networks.  minors. 
technical working party that drafted the new 
Self-Regulation Code for Media and Minors, 
This new classification system is currently in  Lastly,  the  Group  has  confirmed  its 
which  aims  to  reformulate  requests  to 
the  process  of  being  adopted  (The  commitment to make the web a safer place 
safeguard minors in the complex reality of 
for  minors,  also  at  European  level.  The 
88 