Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 4 ▪ Effectiveness and sustainability of the broadcasting and commercial offering 
“YouRateIt” system was successfully tested  coordinated by  the Ministry  of Education,  not violated. This manual is available on the 
on Mediaset’s 16mm.it platform. “YouRateIt”  University and Research.  intranet and is provided to all production 
is  a  classification  tool  for  user-generated  companies who employ minors to implement 
Mediaset TV news and public service and in-
content produced between 2013 and 2015, in  the measures presented. 
depth  information  programmes  focused 
collaboration  with  the  British  BBFC  and 
continuously on the issue of cyberbullying  Furthermore, the Code of Ethics of Mediaset 
Dutch  Nicam  (two  of  the  leading 
and the potential risks connected with the  España states that, as a basic principle, "no 
organisations assessing audiovisual content 
Internet.  one  should  behave  in  such  a  way  as  to 
in  Europe).  Following  this  testing,  the 
induce, promote, favour, permit or allow acts 
European Commission decided to introduce 
Regarding commercial communication, the 
or attitudes that could be characterised as 
content classification tools – Art. 28 ter 3. 
advertising sales house Publitalia ‘80 also 
prostitution or corruption of minors". 
letter  g) –  among  the  measures  in  the 
supervises compliance with the provisions 
proposed revision of the Audiovisual Media 
contained  in  the  Self-Regulatory  Code  of  As for the impact of the content transmitted 
Services Directive (Directive (EU) 2018/1808 
Commercial Communication.  to minors, the Spanish regulation requires the 
of  14  November  2018,  effective  from  19 
classification of the audiovisual content to be 
December 2018). These measures, deemed  As  for  product  placement,  with  specific 
transmitted,  defined  in  the  framework  of 
appropriate for the protection of minors on  reference to the betting sector, the contents 
content  self-regulation,  signed  by  the 
video  sharing  platforms,  may  include  the  are shared internally with the Mediaset S.p.A. 
operators of free-to-air television in 2015 and 
mechanisms  applied  by  “YouRateIt”.  The  legal office before each televised broadcast. 
under the supervision of the Spanish National 
European  Commission  explicitly  cited  the 
Commission  on  Markets  and  Competition 
Regarding the participation of minors in the 
experience  of  the  “YouRateIt”  pilot  in 
(CNCM).  According  to  this  self-regulation 
Mediaset among the interventions to protect  content produced, the Mediaset Group in 
framework,  all  televised  content  must  be 
minors  from  harmful  content  on  Internet  Spain,  in  addition  to  following  the 
classified,  except  for  news  and  events 
platforms, as part of the Impact Assessment  procedures  issued  by  the  Community  of 
broadcasting (sport, music, culture, politics, 
document which accompanied the proposal  Madrid Labour Department, has drawn up a 
bullfights and bull runs). 
to revise the Directive.  manual in which all necessary information 
concerning the rights of minors is collected 
For  these  purposes,  the  Department  of 
The  Group  has  also  kept  its  role  on  the  to ensure children's activities on television 
Institutional Relations works continuously in 
Advisory Board of the Safer Internet Centre  are suitable and to ensure that their right to 
close contact with the Antenna Department 
for the Italia-Generazioni Connesse project,  education and enjoyment of their leisure is 
in order to clarify and qualify any content 
89 