Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 4 ▪ Effectiveness and sustainability of the broadcasting and commercial offering 
that may have an impact on regulations for  penalties  for  the  Company  due  to  non- both  to  prevent  offences  and  to  obtain 
minors.  compliance with marketing communication  compensation. 
regulations, a total amount of 1.02 million 
The age classification established determines  These actions have resulted in judges taking 
euros. 
the time slot in which each programme may  measures  with  significant  compensatory 
be broadcast.    obligations which, although pending further 
stages,  confirm  the  legal  direction  of 
Furthermore,  prior  to  the  transmission  of  4.4   PROTECTION OF   copyright  protection.    Particular  attention 
programmes involving children, a preliminary 
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY  was  also  paid  to  anti-piracy  activity  for 
approval by the Child Protection Authority is 
Group-owned films in cinemas. 
required in addition to the aforementioned  The Mediaset Group considers respect for 
verification.  and protection of intellectual property to be  The same level of attention for intellectual 
of strategic importance and, to protect its  property is also recommended to internal 
Finally,  thanks  to  the  Parental  Control 
audiovisual  rights,  prosecutes  those  production facilities, for which the Collective 
system, the Group ensures a safe browsing 
responsible for pirated transmission  of its  Management  of  Copyright  and  Related 
environment  for  registered  users  on  the 
content, regardless of the medium.   Rights  provides  preventative  advice  on 
Mitele  platform  and  on  all  devices.  On 
request. 
websites  with  specific  content  aimed  at  We  start  with  careful  monitoring  using 
children and young people, the advertising  specialised companies and, once we have  The Group is also present in all national and 
used  is  segmented  to  avoid  the  risk  of  identified  pirated  content,  we  proceed  to  European  institutions  that  deal  with 
promoting unsuitable products or services  caution the pirates, with the help of external  copyright legislation.  
that do not comply with the rules described  legal firms where required, and in the event 
As evidence of the importance and care that 
above.   of repeat offences file administrative actions 
Mediaset  dedicates  to  the  protection  of 
with AGCOM via civil and criminal lawsuits, 
Please note that there were five sentences  intellectual property, the Code of Ethics of 
from  the  CNCM  in  2019  that  resulted  in  the  Group21  has  a  specific  article  on  this 
                                                        
21 The Group's Code of Ethics is implemented by all Group companies except for the Mediaset Group in Spain, which operates its own code based on the parent Company's. The new Code of Ethics adopted by Mediaset S.p.A. 
and its subsidiaries in 2019 contains Article 12 (Intellectual property), which states: "1. The Mediaset Group holds important intellectual and industrial property rights, deeming their correct management fundamental. All Addressees 
whose activities, duties or functions in any way involve processing data, information or documents regarding intellectual and/or industrial property rights within Mediaset Group companies art therefore obliged to protect them 
with the utmost diligence, accuracy and confidentiality. 2. The intellectual and/or industrial property rights to products, works and/or knowledge developed in the context of work belong to Mediaset Group companies, who 
have the right to make use of them, according to the methods and time frames deemed most suitable, in compliance with the regulations applicable in each instance. 3. At the same time, the Mediaset Group respects and 
protects the intellectual and industrial property rights of others, ensuring that company activities (in both production and commerce) use solely original products and works, regularly licensed by the legitimate owners and used 
90 