Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 4 ▪ Effectiveness and sustainability of the broadcasting and commercial offering 
subject stating that anyone processing data,  various platforms to guarantee the exercise  broadcasting rights in the contract with the 
information  or  documents  regarding  of  its  intellectual  property  rights,  while  producer in question. 
intellectual and/or industrial property rights  carrying out technical audits to review their 
Mediaset España has adopted a contractual 
within Mediaset Group companies must do so  correct application. 
monitoring  system  for  films  produced  by 
with  the  utmost  diligence,  accuracy  and 
Mediaset  España  has  always  been  at  the  Telecinco  Cinema  which  combats  illegal 
confidentiality.  
forefront of all initiatives aimed at combating  access to content produced while the film is 
In the case of foreign subsidiaries such as  piracy and protecting intellectual property.  shown in cinemas (from film release until 
Medset, external legal firms meeting the local  viewing on DVD/Blu-ray). 
  In addition, Mediaset España has an external 
regulatory  requirements  act  to  protect 
content  monitoring  service  on  YouTube  It should be noted that the Mediaset España 
intellectual property and copyright. 
which tracks and removes all content owned  Code  of  Ethics  also  regulates  all  aspects 
For R.T.I., there is a specific O.G. in place  by Mediaset España from this channel.  relating  to  the  defence  of  intellectual 
which regulates this case: "Procurement of  property. 
The  intellectual  property  rights  of 
television  productions  and  purchase  of 
programmes broadcast live and on-demand   
formats and licences". 
via online platforms are protected by specific 
With respect to reporting and shutting down  internal control systems that the company  4.5  AUDIENCE INTERACTION 
pirate websites who transmit sports, cinema  applies before  the programmes  are  aired.  AND CUSTOMER 
or series content, 35 portals were identified  The  Group  examines  and  defines  the 
SATISFACTION 
in 2019 that were transmitting cinema and  different  contractual  clauses  of  all  the 
series content to which the Mediaset Group  contents produced and transmitted on the 
FREE TV  
holds the usage rights. 34 cases closed with  various  channels  with  the  support  of  the 
the  sites  disabled,  whereas  one  was  Legal Department.  The Group continuously monitors customer 
dismissed  because  the  portal  took  action  satisfaction to improve its services and allow 
The  management  of  the  Multi-Platform 
spontaneously.   its viewers to enjoy excellent products. It’s 
Department ensures that all content offered 
thanks to the Auditel panel that the Mediaset 
The Mediaset Group in Spain has defined  via  various  websites  has  the  appropriate 
Group  can  track  the  behaviour  of  the 
procedures to control the flow of content to 
                                                        
in compliance with the authorisation received." 
91 