Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 4 ▪ Effectiveness and sustainability of the broadcasting and commercial offering 
television audience continuously throughout  Every individual Videonews programme has  to  December  31,  2019,  there  was  a 
the day; it is also able to detect the number  an inbox to which viewers can send reports.   significant increase in traffic on TgCom24 
of people watching television in each time  social media platforms. Specifically, the 
For  TgCom24  in  particular,  there  is  a 
slot,  which  channel/programme  is  viewed  official  Facebook  page  has  over  2.2 
constant upgrading of social media activity 
and for how long. Each viewer is classified  million followers (up 3.8% compared to 
by  agency  staff.  In  addition  to  the  2 
according  to  socio-demographic  variables  2018. Data source: Facebook Insights), the 
Facebook  profiles  and  1  Twitter  account, 
such as sex, age, geographical area and level  official  Twitter  profile  has  988,000 
TgCom24 is now also on Instagram as of 
of education.  followers  and  Instagram  577,000 
2017.  TgCom24  has  a  live  inbox 
followers (Data source: Twitter Insights). 
Consequently,  both  the  quantitative  and  (TGCom24@mediaset.it) available to viewers 
The LinkedIn profile was also launched at 
qualitative  appreciation  of  each  individual  and  readers  for  reports  and  requests  for 
the end of 2019. 
transmission are known. This analysis also  clarification.  
allows the individual items of content offered 
Finally, note that Auditel measurement of 
Interaction with TGCOM24 readers/viewers 
to be assessed at a quantitative level.  
digital  audience  on  different  devices 
takes place on 2 levels:  
began in 2019. This measurement will lead 
Additionally, the Group is active on social 
media  to  maintain  a  relationship  with  its  •  Website: readers can comment on the  to Auditel identifying the Total Audience 
users, via Facebook, Twitter and Instagram  news published after logging in to the  in 2021. 
and on network sites and radio and television  Mediaset  Community.  Comments  are 
The main television ratings are analysed to 
programs, thus establishing direct dialogue  moderated and inserted at the bottom of 
determine the visibility and following of news 
with  the  public  to  collect  comments  or  the  articles;  the  most  interesting 
products. 
reports,  also  in  the  event  of  any  sudden  comments are shown on the site home 
changes to the programming schedule or  page.  Note  that  TgCom24  is  the  only  These  quantitative  research  instruments 
sudden cancellations.   news site that puts readers' contributions  permit analysis of their reception, which in 
on its home page. 
turn allows the handling of the content on 
As for the world of News, each production 
offer  to  be  optimised  and  assessment  of 
•  Social media: readers can comment on 
has a social media activity that is managed 
different deviations from the broadcasting 
posts  in  relation  to  news,  videos  and 
by a dedicated company structure, which 
objectives. Quantitative analysis is a valid 
photo galleries on TgCom24; agency staff 
constantly  interfaces  with  the  programme 
tool on which to lay the foundations for wide-
moderate the comments. From January 1 
lines for sharing content to be published. 
ranging investigations as well, enhanced by 
92 