Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 4 ▪ Effectiveness and sustainability of the broadcasting and commercial offering 
qualitative assessments and assessments of  and Doxa. The surveys consider the listening  •  Listener trends 
the  competitive  context,  with  the  aim  of  figures (on an average day, seven days and 
•  Post campaign assessment 
offering the best product to the end user.   average quarter of an hour). 
Complete analysis of the Mediaset offering 
The same reporting is also used on a B2B 
ADVERTISING SALES HOUSE 
with: 
level as a valid tool for advertising investors; 
the investors are thus able to understand the  Publitalia '80 and the Group’s other sales 
•  Target analysis 
true potential of a product and its ability to  houses implement many types of survey to 
speak  to  the  target  audience  of  the  monitor customer satisfaction.   •  Multimedia plan development 
advertisers. 
One of the main ways is to monitor listeners  •  Performance measurement 
The Group radio channels collect feedback  and this takes place via:  
Ad hoc research, with: 
and comments from listeners via messaging 
•  The daily submission of an email to the 
(SMS and WhatsApp, Facebook, Instagram, 
•  Efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  the 
entire sales force with the most significant 
Twitter, voice mail, direct contact via the 
medium 
data of the television day and a summary 
radio channel phone number) and in some 
cases users are even contacted to give their  of the weekly listeners;   •  Awareness monitoring: phone surveys to 
opinions live on air. The feedback collected  •  The weekly submission to more than 10  monitor what people remember, whether 
may concern topics discussed on the air, the  spontaneously or with assistance, about 
thousand customers of the Top of the 
selection of music tracks, or guest speaker  campaigns/products/companies.  These 
Week  on  Mediaset  networks,  which 
interventions  during  live  broadcasts.  To  surveys are carried out pre-campaign and 
collects  the  best  audience  results  of 
guarantee  users'  privacy,  the  messaging  post-campaign. 
programmes broadcast via the Group's 
systems hide the mobile telephone numbers 
broadcast companies.  •  Qualitative assessment of the audience 
of listeners, who can only be contacted by 
the people employed in the company for that  Analysis of the effectiveness of advertising 
TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION FOR USER 
purpose.  campaigns is carried out through:  
INTERACTION 
The radio sector also has surveys on public  Marketing analysis with:  
appreciation,  through  TER  (Tavolo  editori  The Mediaset Group has always been in line 
radio) and in collaboration with Gfk, Ipsos  •  Investment analysis  with  the  most  recent  technological 
93 