Sustainability Report 2019 - Mediaset Group – 4 ▪ Effectiveness and sustainability of the broadcasting and commercial offering 
developments;  it  has  adopted  one  of  the  machine learning. This tool interacts directly  satisfaction through such tools as NPS (Net 
leading and most innovative B2C interaction  by answering user questions; it also performs  Promoter Score) and surveys of the entire 
tools,  Zendesk,  and  the  Mapp  and  pre-defined  actions  such  as  rating  a  customer and ex-customer base, aiming to 
Accengage solutions for handling outbound  character in a programme.  identify the main actions for correcting and 
communication.  developing  the  service  and  ensuring  the 
Digital Business management continuously 
highest standards of quality for customers. 
The tool was already active on Infinity from  monitors  the  consumption  behaviour  of 
the  launch  of  the  service  itself,  and  has  digital  users  in  order  to  measure  the  In  line  with  the  Italian  companies  of  the 
enabled a relationship with users that both  performance of individual items of content  Mediaset  Group,  Mediaset  España  is  in 
enhances  the  experience  of  using  the  and  reference  brands.  This  monitoring  is  constant contact with its users via various 
services  and  allows  the  reporting  and  performed using data collection tools, such  applications, as well as through the standard 
management of technical issues.   as Webtrekk.  audimetric measurement methodologies22. In 
this  way  users  can  take  part  in  the 
It allows various touchpoints to be activated,  In order to create a more in-depth perception 
programmes  broadcast  and  make  their 
including live chat, e-mail and SMS. These  of  preferences  for  different  contents, 
voices heard, thus influencing and making 
channels are already active on Infinity and  continuous monitoring research is carried out 
major decisions for programmes in the early 
will soon be extended to the other platforms  on  the  appreciation  and  mood  of  users 
evening slot. Moreover, the use of dedicated 
as well.   towards  different  brands.  The  continued 
spaces on the web platform has led to the 
adoption of new technologies will give way 
Interaction with customers is therefore an  launch  of  competitions  or  initiatives  to 
to  a  process  to  increase  awareness 
important and effective tool, as user reports  collect possible content offerings from the 
possibilities  and  interpretation  of  users' 
in several cases have helped solve significant  public such as photos or videos. All content 
consumption habits and interests, as well as 
problems in a short time.   is viewed before publication. In the same 
proposing content that is more consistent 
way,  users  can  send  their  opinions, 
with  user  interests  through  the  use  of 
Another  major  user  interaction  tool  complaints, suggestions or questions to the 
algorithms (Content Wise). 
introduced is the Chat Bot. Chat Bots are  various addresses of Mediaset España S.A., 
programs  that  simulate  a  conversation  With particular reference to paid services,  through the applications created for specific 
between  a  robot  and  a  human  being,  Mediaset  constantly  monitors  customer  individual programmes or through the new 
incorporating  artificial  intelligence  and  PlayBuzz  platform  which  allows  users  to 
                                                        
22 We would also highlight that targeted qualitative audience studies were carried out in 2019 in collaboration with leading research and measurement companies. 
94 