01
D
R
O
W
E
R
O
F
A word from 
our Chairman
Insieme promuoviamo i Global Goals 
#globalgoals
17 obiettivi per cambiare  il mondo
It is now a year on from issuing our first Sustainability Report for SECH and 
TDT, and I write this introduction to the second report in the knowledge 
that the world is now a very different place. The Covid-19 crisis has shown 
us many things, perhaps for the first time in the lives of many. 
On the downside, we have seen how fragile our public health can be when faced 
by an invisible, and deadly, threat. Not only has the physical health of communities 
worldwide been threatened, but mental health has also become a widespread issue. 
And of course, the economic impact of the pandemic has been devastating.
However, there have also been upsides to the crisis. Communities, and even whole 
populations,  have  come  together  in  lockdown.  Pollution  has  reduced  and  the 
environment has benefited. Even politicians have worked together! And it is now more 
clear than ever that we depend on a whole class of “key workers” – those who work 
in healthcare, those who keep our public services running, and those who work in 
businesses considered essential to the economy.
I am proud to say that both SECH and TDT are considered amongst those businesses 
that are essential to the regional and national economy. And they have operated 
throughout the crisis thanks to the commitment of many people. In particular, it has 
been good to see how well the business teams have managed to create safe and 
healthy working conditions for everyone. 
The health and safety record for the business reflects the wider initiatives and objectives 
that are the subject of this second Sustainability Report. Managing the impact on 
our environment is also rapidly becoming a major cultural issue for all of us, as is the 
importance of diversity. I know that these remain priorities for your Board of Directors 
and I thank you for all your efforts to make SECH and TDT safe, clean and fair places 
to work. I would also like to acknowledge the continued efforts of Giulio Schenone, our 
CEO, and in particular the commitments made by those who lead the sustainability 
teams: Paola Cavassa (SECH), Tiziana Gianuzzi (SECH) and Federica Tommasi (TDT). 
Your investors consider the first Sustainability Report to be “best in class” and we would 
like to keep it that way. 
EL - 10 ANNI Rollup GG x SOCI.indd   1 21/05/19   15:06
The Chairman of the Board of Directors
Mr. Stephen Nelson
SECH • TDT 2019 Sustainability Report | 11 