Insieme promInusioevmiaem poro i mGluoobvaila Gmooa lis G lobal Goals 
#globalgoals#globalgoals
17 obiettivi p17e ro cbaiemttbiviai rpee  ril  cmamonbdiaore  il mondo
Insieme promInusioevmiaem poro i mGluoobvaila Gmooa lis G lobal Goals 
#globalgoals#globalgoals
17 obiettivi p17e ro cbaiemttbiviai rpee  ril  cmamonbdiaore  il mondo
5.2 INDIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
The indirect environmental impacts are due to activities related to those 
of the terminals and delegated to third parties or linked to subjects 
upstream  and  downstream  of  the  main  processes,  i.e.  along  the 
production chain.
Such activities are as follows:
• Maintenance of mechanical and lifting equipment;
• tyre maintenance;
• support to handling/transport;
• shuttle transport service to/from the quay, yards and rail areas;
• port services on board the vessels (lashing/unlashing on board);
• maneuvers of railway wagons;
• empty stock management;
• controls/inspections (accesses, gate technical inspection, reefer);
• gate private security for entrance and night access;
• plugging/unplugging/reefer monitoring activities;
• office cleaning;
• cleaning yards and waste disposal; 
• vehicle washing;
•  in/out flows of transport by truck/rail/vessel;
• commuting of employees home/work;
EL - 10 ANNI Rollup GG x SOCI.indd   1 EL - 10 ANNI Rollup GG x SOCI.indd   1 • flows of visito21/05/19   15:06rs and supp21/05/19   15:06liers in/out of the terminals.
On all such activities, the management control level of the terminals is indirect and 
depends  on  the  influence  that  the  companies  have  on  that  particular  process 
or supplier: on the processes and activities carried out internally on the site, the 
EL - 10 ANNI Rollup GG x SOCI.indd   1 EL - 10 ANNI Rollup GG x SOCI.indd   1 21/05/19   15:06 21/05/19   15:06
terminals have a greater level of control (for example, on contractual clauses, audits, 
inspections, etc.), while for activities held outside the terminal areas (e.g. transport 
to/from the terminals) the power of intervention is not significant, since the activities 
are independent of the core business and outside the area of i  nfluence of the two 
organisations.
All suppliers operating at SECH must be previously qualified and periodically evaluated, 
in compliance with the procedures of the quality management system in force. These 
procedures have been progressively integrated with environmental controls, since 
the adoption of the organisational and management model pursuant to Legislative 
Decree 231/2001. Among the usual suppliers, particular attention was paid to the 
transporters and waste disposers, for which at each intervention the compliance with 
the requisites required by current legislation is assessed. The other resident suppliers 
are regulated by specific contractual clauses. Any anomaly found is managed as a 
system non-conformity. There are no consumption data relating to the activities carried 
out by suppliers operating at SECH.
The significant environmental aspects linked to the activities pertaining to the supply 
chain at TDT are framed within the environmental analysis and evaluated exactly as 
the direct ones.
120 | SECH • TDT 2019 Sustainability Report