Insieme promuoviamo i Global Goals 
#globalgoals
17 obiettivi per cambiare  il mondo
» 
TRAINING OF WORKERS ON HEALTH AND SAFETY MATTERS
It is the duty of SECH and TDT to carry out an information and training activity 
consistent with the company policies, the ethical principles contained, the 
applicable legislation on the subject, the voluntary adoption of standards, 
their commitments and the corrective actions relating to the prevention of 
repetition of non-compliance, accidents and injuries.
It is the terminals’ task to ensure that workers are competent, including the ability to 
identify hazards; for this purpose SECH and TDT plan, organise, implement and verify the 
learning and effectiveness of information and training activities internally or through 
qualified external subjects. SECH and TDT provide workers with training on security, in 
compliance with the provisions of the State Regions Conference Agreement n. 221 of 
21st December 2011, pursuant to Legislative Decree 9th April 2008, no. 81, which rules 
the duration, minimum contents and methods of mandatory training in terms of safety, 
personal development of workers, supervisors and managers, as well as the optional 
training of the subjects referred to in Article 21, paragraph 1, of the same Legislative 
Decree n. 81/08.
In detail, the terminals provide the following types of training on health and safety, also 
guaranteeing the updates envisaged according to regulatory requirements:
• General training, lasting 4 hours, concerns all workers and focuses on the general 
concepts of safety at work (Article 37, Legislative Decree 81/2008). This training is 
provided to all personnel on a one-off basis.
• Specific training refers to the tasks, the risks associated with these and the related 
prevention and protection measures and procedures, which are characteristic of 
the sector which the company belongs to. The duration of specific training is added 
to the general one and is variable of 4, 8 or 12 hours depending on whether it is 
addressed to tasks with low, medium or high risk respectively. E-learning training is 
allowed for workers only for the general part (4 hours) and not for the specific part. 
EL - 10 ANNI Rollup GG x SOCI.indd   1 21/05/19   15:06
This training is updated every 5 years, subjecting the workers to a 6-hour training.
• Training for those in charge of safety and security is of a minimum duration of 8 
hours and is provided in addition to that received as a worker and includes the 
development of the following topics:
» 
Main targets of the company prevention system;
» 
relations among the various internal and external subjects of the prevention 
system;
» 
definition and identification of risk factors;
» 
nearmiss and injuries;
» 
communication and awareness-raising techniques for workers;
» 
risk assessment of the company, with particular reference to the context in which 
the person in charge operates;
» 
identification  of  technical,  organisational  and  procedural  prevention  and 
protection measures;
» 
methods of exercising the function of checking compliance by workers.
154 | SECH • TDT 2019 Sustainability Report