» 
EMERGENCY DEVICES
During  2019,  three  lifesaving  safeguards  were  set  up  against 
cardiovascular arrest, to protect workers, visitors and all external staff at 
the terminal. In fact, every year in Italy this phenomenon affects, unfortunately, 
one person in a thousand, with an estimate of about 55 thousand cases every 12 months, 
with a survival rate of 3 percent. However, in countries with early defibrillation, survival can 
reach 50 percent. 11812 was notified of the installation, in order to integrate the appliances 
in the Ligurian territorial emergency network. Defibrillators belong to the category of external 
automatic typology (AED), which guides the operator in all phases of the rescue, indicating 
the operations to be carried out at each step. In June, the training of employees to use the 
defibrillator was carried out, in order to ensure a continuous presence 24 hours a day.
» 
EQUIPMENT
Following to a request from the maintenance and operations department, the terminal 
was equipped with a cage for lifting people, designed to 
be brought to altitude with the forklift. Such equipment 
will allow to perform extraordinary activities on various 
typology of cargo more easily and safely (lashing and 
unlashing) or maintenance work at height, which cannot 
otherwise be performed with traditional equipment. In 
order to ensure that personnel are informed and trained 
in the use of this equipment, a specific safety instruction 
has  been  prepared,  with  the  subject  of  the  course 
addressed to the supervisors and colleagues who will 
use it.
» 
TRAINING
SECH’s commitment to safety training also continued in 2019. The provision of the 
compulsory safety training update, the PES-PAV13 update for electrical maintenance 
12. Rescue squads.
13. The PES/PAV/PEI is a training course necessary to be able to work in the presence of electrical 
hazards and is aimed at all personnel working on live or out-of-voltage electrical systems. The reference  TY
standard is CEI 11-27:2014. BILI
A
N
AI
T
S
U
S
L 
A
CI
O
S
SECH • TDT 2019 Sustainability Report | 159 