 
“IDEAS TO PROMOTE SECURITY AT SECH” COMPETITION
On April 28th, 2019, on the occasion of World 
Security Day, the two ex-aequo winners of 
the competition “Ideas to promote security 
at SECH” were awarded and all staff were 
invited to present ideas for the benefit of the 
workers’ health and safety. The company has 
undertaken to carry out what is suggested, 
increasing the use of the shuttle bus to offer 
a service for the transfer of seafarers from on 
board the vessels to the reception area and 
vice versa and a dedicated service to transport workers to the allocated vehicles at 
yard at the beginning of each shift. Thanks to this improvement action, the exposure 
to investment risk, to which personnel passing through operating areas by foot is 
extremely exposed, will be further reduced.     
workers, the update for employees using scissor lifts, reachstackers, industrial trucks and 
telescopic-boom trucks has been planned and implemented, as well as the update 
for the management of dangerous goods pursuant to the IMDG14 Code and the fire 
and first-aid update for emergency workers, which from this year is completed with 
the maneuvers of use of the defibrillator. Since training to SECH, however, does not 
only mean fulfilling the obligation envisaged by laws and regulations, during the year 
the company offered its employees the opportunity to grow and keep up to date, to 
always keep their skills and competences adequate, with respect to the evolution of 
the working activity. In this context falls the activity of the improvement groups, which 
included a training session aimed at raising workers’ awareness of the importance of 
reporting the threats they encounter in carrying out their duties, as well as creating 
a network of managers who could cope with them. Among the growth patterns that 
the organisation has offered to its workers, there are the courses for the qualification 
to drive vehicles excluded from the State Regions Agreement (RMGs, RTGs, SSGCs), as 
well as those aimed at enabling operational tasks (stevedores). These courses include 
a large section on behavioural safety rules to be followed during the job and on the 
main risk prevention and management measures. Dedicated extra training activity is 
then addressed to the leading roles of the security area (HSSE and employees) who, 
during 2019, covered the following topics:
• How to build safety behaviours and culture;
• risk reduction at ALARP15 level and health and safety performance indicators in 
compliance with UNI ISO 45001;
• the MSDS16 for dangerous substances;
• guidelines for assessing the effectiveness of safety training;
• workplace  safety  in  port  operations  and  business  organization  models  for  a 
workplace health and safety management system.
14. International Maritime Dangerous Goods.
15. As Low As Reasonably Practicable.
16. Material Safety Data Sheets.
160 | SECH • TDT 2019 Sustainability Report