2.2.1 SECH
Terminal Contenitori Porto di Genova S.p.A., with the brand SECH, since 1993 manages 
the Calata Sanità container terminal. With a maximum annual capacity of 550,000 
TEUs, it ranks among the main import/export terminals across the country.
The terminal is in a favourable position both in terms of access by sea (vessels moor in 
S
E
less than an hour after entering the port) and by land, being effectively connected to the  NI
A
main road and rail transport networks. This strategic position, together with investments  MP
O
in human, instrumental and IT resources, makes the terminal an avant-garde structure,  C
E 
which represents a key access point with respect to the production areas located in  H
T
northern Italy and southern Europe, which are its main catchment area.
The investments of the company, together with those of the port of Genoa, have allowed 
in recent years to raise the quality level, in order to allow a faster and safer transit of 
the goods, consenting the terminal to consolidate its position in the North Tyrrhenian 
port market. In this context, an important investment programme concentrated on the 
quay area, with the extension of the boom of four of the five cranes has for some 
years now enabled the containers stowed in the twentieth row sea side to be easily 
Insieme promoupoevriaatmedo  io Gnl othbea ls Ghiopa, lsso  that large vessels can be accommodated (14,000-TEU class). 
#Ignl oabdadlgitoioanls, dredging operations have been completed, which have restored the quay 
depth at -15 metres; furthermore a new structure for the inspection of goods for human 
17 obiettivi per cambiare  il mondo
and non-human consumption, the only one existing within the port east side basin, is 
being completed. The new building has a room for office use, completed with spaces 
Insieme promuoviamo i Global Goals 
intended for the reception of goods and for carrying out inspection activities. The works 
#globalgoals
for the actual construction have been completed and the necessary authorisations for 
17 obiettivi per cambiare  il mondo
the commissioning of the structure are awaited.
IInnssiieemmee  pprroommuuoovviiaammoo  ii  GGlloobbaall  GGooaallss  
##gglloobbaallggooaallss
2.2.1.1 OWNERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
1177  oobbiieettttiivvii  ppeerr  ccaammbbiiaarree    iill  mmoonnddoo
SECH is 100% owned by Se.Be.R. S.r.l., a company belonging to the 
corporate group, whose holding company is GIP S.p.A.
In the area of   governance, PSA and GIP signed an agreement on 
September 24th, 2019 aimed at restructuring port operations in the port 
of Genoa.
The proposed transaction, subject to formal approval by the competent 
authorities, will cause PSA to become majority shareholder and take 
control of both PSA Genova Prà and SECH.
The transaction aims at optimising the container handling capacity in 
the port of Genoa, creating a single platform capable of responding 
in the best possible way to the requests of shipping companies and, 
ultimately, to the growing demand for logistics services by importers and 
exporters in the immediate hinterland and beyond.
All  this  will  also  allow  the  terminals  to  take  full  advantage  of  their 
managerial  and  operational  synergies,  while  simultaneously  taking 
advantage of new technological resources, capable of transforming 
operational proficiencies.
Until the necessary formal approvals are confirmed, PSA and SECH will continue to 
operate as separate entities, each with its own management.
SECH • TDT 2019 Sustainability Report | 17 
EL - 10 ANNI Rollup GG x SOCI.indd   1 21/05/19   15:06
EL - 10 ANNI Rollup GG x SOCI.indd   1 21/05/19   15:06
EELL - - 1 100 A ANNNNI IR Roolllulupp G GGG x x S SOOCCI.Ii.nindddd     1 1 2211/0/055/1/199     1 155:0:066