During 2019, SECH improved the reporting of intruder alarms in two border areas of the 
terminal, potentially subject to unwanted entrances. The installation of some cameras 
with detection alarms for very sensitive movements took the form of an analysis and 
evaluation of the corporate decisions adopted by the Port Authority PFSO29 and only 
following formal approval by the competent authority, the local harbour office.
With regard to TDT terminal, in 2019, newly assigned personnel were sent to training in 
the role of “operations assistant”, who carried out the course in compliance with the 
IMO Model Course 3.24 for terminal staff with specific security tasks. The percentage of 
personnel with specific security positions trained according to this course is 100%.
Furthermore, basic training on security, familiarisation, had already been provided in 
the past years to almost all TDT employees. However, since unevenness was created in 
the courses provided over the years, in 2017 it was decided to carry it out from scratch, 
according to a model course structured on the basis of the contents of the reference 
IMO Model Course (IMO Model Course 3.25). This new training was completed in 2019 
and is extended to all terminal staff without specific security duties.
The PFSOs, the PFSO deputies of both terminals, the PFSO assistant at TDT, as well as 
the external resources used to comply with the security service, maintain their skills by 
participating in periodic updating training sessions compliant with the IMO models 
and the sheet 6 of the PNSM30. In 2019, specific training interventions on internal security 
procedures were provided to external personnel with security assignments.
All the courses mentioned above, where provided, are carried out at training centres 
authorised by the Ministry of Infrastructures and Transport - General Command of the 
Port Authority Corps, with Decree n. 1310/2009; otherwise they are held by the same 
PFSO or Deputy PFSO.
The training of terminal staff in terms of security, in addition to the provision of the 
aforementioned courses, is also ensured by exercises and teachings, investigation of 
accidents, as well as by the information and indications generated during the audits.
The exercises were held regularly for both terminals, as per the defined plan and the 
considerations, sent to the designated authority, highlighted a good knowledge of the 
emergency procedures as well as proper management of communications by the 
resources of both organisations, ensuring times and methods of response to adequate 
emergencies; the latter will also be tested in 2020, through a similar training programme.
Y
T
LI
BI
A
N
AI
T
S
U
S
L 
A
CI
O
S
29. Port Facility Security Officer.
30. Programma Nazionale di Sicurezza Marittima (National Security Programme).
SECH • TDT 2019 Sustainability Report | 183 