7.2 APPLICATION LEVEL OF GRI STANDARDS
“This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option”.
The companies have also reported numerous indicators required by the comprehensive 
option (so-called comprehensive/global level), in order to maximise the information 
content to Stakeholders.
The reference period of this SECH and TDT sustainability report is 2019 - from 1st January 
to 31st December, unless otherwise specified - and the data for the previous two-year 
period are also reported, so as to allow an analysis on a three-year basis, as required by 
the GRI guidelines. The reference period of the previous report is 2018.
The data were calculated based on the information available within the accounts and 
the management systems of the two terminals; some data are the result of estimates, in 
which case the calculation hypotheses are clearly reported. With regard to information 
of external origin, the source in the notes is reported each time.
SECH and TDT decided not to submit the 2019 Sustainability Report to verification by an 
external certifying body, but to proceed with the registration or sending of the same to 
the GRI, as required by the 2016 guidelines.
7.3 STRUCTURE
The structure of the report was defined with the aim of making it easy to read for all 
Stakeholders to whom it is addressed; the chapters are divided according to the 
macro areas of interest, as defined in the GRI guidelines: economic, environmental and 
social sustainability. In addition, emphasis was given to the correspondence between 
individual GRI topics and related SDGs, based on the “Compass 2016” document and 
its update dating back to March 2020.
Before the three thematic chapters, the management approach of the companies 
with respect to the three macro areas of responsibility is illustrated.
The in-depth information required by the GRI 2016 Guidelines that SECH and TDT 
deemed important to offer are treated right after.
To facilitate the search for precise information, in paragraph 7.4 “Standard contents 
and GRI indicators” all the GRI indicators and the general contents required are listed, 
with indications of the pages in which these topics are treated. The next chapter lists 
the non-applicable or non-material indicators, with the relevant explanation.
Y
G
O
L
O
D
O
H
T
E
M
SECH • TDT 2019 Sustainability Report | 187 