7.5 REASONS FOR THE NON-APPLICABILITY 
OF GRI DISCLOSURES 
Table 87: Reasons for the non-applicability of GRI disclosures
NON-APPLICABLE GRI DISCLOSURES REASON
The terminals do not carry out an assessment 
201 - 1: Direct economic value generated and distributed.
in this regard at the moment.
207 - 4: Country-by-country reporting. The terminals operate in just one country.
Not material for the activities carried out 
301 - 1: Materials used by weight or volume.
inside the terminals.
301 - 3: Reclaimed products and their packaging  Not material for the activities carried out 
materials. inside the terminals.
304 - 1: Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or 
adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity  Terminals are not located in these areas.
value outside protected areas.
304 - 2: Significant impacts of activities, products, and 
Terminals are not located in these areas.
services on biodiversity.
304 - 3: Habitats protected or restored. Terminals are not located in these areas.
304 - 4: IUCN Red List species and national conservation 
Terminals are not located in these areas.
list species with habitats in areas affected by operations.
413 - 1: Operations with local community engagement,  The terminals do not carry out an assessment 
impact assessments, and development programmes. in this regard at the moment.
413 - 2: Operations with significant actual and potential  The terminals do not carry out an assessment 
negative impacts on local communities. in this regard at the moment.
416 - 1: Assessment of the health and safety impacts of  Not applicable to the type of service 
product and service categories. provided by the terminals.
416 - 2: Incidents of non-compliance concerning the  Not applicable to the type of service 
health and safety impacts of products and services. provided by the terminals.
417 - 1: Requirements for product and service  Not applicable to the type of service 
information and labelling. provided by the terminals.
417 - 2: Incidents of non-compliance concerning product  Not applicable to the type of service 
and service information and labelling. provided by the terminals.
417 - 3: Incidents of non-compliance concerning The terminals do not carry out an assessment 
marketing communications. in this regard at the moment.
Y
G
O
L
O
D
O
H
T
E
M
SECH • TDT 2019 Sustainability Report | 197 