3.4 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT AND MATRIX
In 2019, the process to identify the most important issues for SECH and TDT on which 
to focus attention and efforts was consolidated, in accordance with the provisions of 
the 2016 GRI Guidelines (latest edition, with amendments 2018 and 2019). This activity 
allowed us to define the materiality matrix for the year being analysed, which identifies 
the  relevant  topics  understood  as  those  aspects  that  can  generate  significant 
economic, social and environmental impacts on the activities of the two terminals and 
which, by influencing expectations, decisions and Stakeholder actions, are perceived 
by them as relevant.
Through the materiality assessment, carried out by the editorial staff of SECH and TDT 
with the support of part of the management of the two companies directly involved in 
the project, some relevant issues were identified, on which the terminals undertake to 
develop concrete actions and coherent initiatives. The themes identified are the result 
of the analysis of the global context, of the dialogue with the management part of the 
two terminals, as well as with some external interlocutors.
In particular, below the main changes compared to the previous edition of the 
document are listed, due to the aggregation of SECH and TDT data. Not to be forgotten 
is the use of the official GRI translation into Italian of the standards, published in the 
summer of 2019, which was fundamental to verify the correctness of the interpretation 
of what was required by each indicator in the English version and possibly align the 
indicators reported in the past with the values a   ctually required by the Guidelines. 
In light of the translation, however, there were no significant deviations such as to 
invalidate the values   reported in the previous reports.
The most significant variations therefore concern the following topics:
• 306 Effluents and waste: in 2018 it was reported by both SECH and TDT and was 
not material; also for this year there was no material and furthermore the disclosure 
306-5 Water basins affected by water discharges and/or runoff is reported only by 
TDT, thanks to the clarifications obtained through the Italian version of the standards.
• 415 Public policy: in 2018 it was not reported, in 2019 it is reported by both SECH 
and TDT and is not material. It is also linked to the newly introduced standard GRI 
207 Taxes, which we will discuss below.
• 416 Customer Health and Safety: in 2018 it was reported and not material, in 
2019 it is not reported, in light of the new details that emerged thanks to the official 
translation into Italian of the standards.
As anticipated, we highlight the introduction of a new indicator within the 2016 GRI 
Guidelines, which took place in September 2019, i.e. the GRI 207 Tax indicator, whose 
reporting will be mandatory starting from the report prepared in 2021; although in 
advance, it was deemed useful to deal with the issues of this standard as of now by 
inserting some notes already starting from this document, in order to have ample 
scope for further study for next year’s work. This standard was reported at macro level 
by both SECH and TDT and is material.
52 | SECH • TDT 2019 Sustainability Report