A sustainable approach in business management, such as that put in place by SECH and  RD
O
TDT, guarantees advantages to the two companies from different points of view. W
E
R
O
F
ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY
, as the ability of an economic 
system  to  generate  lasting  growth  in  economic  indicators.  In 
particular, the ability to generate income and work for the livelihood 
of the populations, as among other things deepened through the new 
chap
standard GRI 207, “Taxes”. Within a territorial system such as SECH- 
4
and TDT’s, economic sustainability means the ability to produce and 
maintain the maximum added value within the territory by effectively 
combining resources, in order to enhance the specificity of products 
and territorial services.
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
, as a choice for low 
environmental impact practices, has positive effects on costs. The  chap
efficiency of processes, as well as the adoption of energy efficiency  5
measures, are able to lead to significant monetary savings.
SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY
, as a guarantee and respect for 
internal  and  external  Stakeholders  (workers,  suppliers,  customers, 
investors and alia), has positive impacts on the trust they have towards 
the two organisations. In the case of employees, greater attachment  chap
6
to the corporate organisation for which they work and a reduction in 
turn-over lead to less loss of know-how and talent, less expenditure of 
resources and time in selection and training. A similar loyalty speech 
can concern customers and investors. 
Adopting sustainability practices has become fundamental over time for SECH and TDT, 
as it also affects the supplier chain. Working with principles and rules of sustainability 
and with subjects who respect them provides more guarantees and minimizes risks. In 
this sense, choosing only those suppliers who have undergone a certification process 
means lowering the dangers of default and having more guarantees of seriousness 
and compliance with the contracts. With obvious advantages on business continuity, 
which is more unlikely to suffer interruptions related to failure to comply with the rules.
All with an increasing focus on the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs), which are substantial for the two terminals. Through various sustainability 
initiatives, of which you can read in depth in the report, over the years steps have been 
taken to address these objectives in various ways.
SECH • TDT 2019 Sustainability Report | 9 