5.1.3 Waste production
InAslli eamcetiv pitrioems rueolavtieadm too i  Gwalosbtea l mGoaanlas gement and regulatory compliance (mandatory 
and volunt#agryl)o baarelg oreaglsulated within specific procedures within both SECH and TDT 
management systems.
17 obiettivi per cambiare  il mondo
Outside of the waste listed in the below paragraphs, neither SECH nor TDT treat or 
IInntrssaiieenmmspeeo  pprtrr, ooimmmpuuooorvvt,i iaaemmxpooo  iri  tGG hllooabbzaaalrl d GGooouaaslls sw  aste. The internal staff was informed of the correct 
manageme##nggtll,o ofobbara ltlgghooeaa pllssurpose of transferring them to the internal and road bins, both 
through periodic information and through training courses on the management 
1177  oobbiieettttiivvii  ppeerr  ccaammbbiiaarree    iill  mmoonnddoo
system.
5.1.3.1 SECH WASTE PRODUCTION
The waste produced by SECH is generated mainly by the maintenance 
activity of the rolling stock and cranes, which is carried out by direct 
personnel (e.g. oils, batteries, spare parts, consumables), but also by 
office activities. Waste-handling personnel were addressees of specific 
courses.
The terminal avails itself of qualified suppliers for collection and recovery 
operations (R13 for putting waste into a reserve before subjecting them 
to one of the other recovery operations, R9 for regeneration or other reuse 
of oils), and disposal of the same (D1 “deposit on or in the ground”, for 
example landfill, and D15 “preliminary deposit before one of the disposal 
operations”), depending on the type of waste.
As shown in the table below, in 2019 the total waste produced grew by 
around 30% compared to the previous year, while there was an increase 
of 21% on the overall total of waste sent for recovery, to the detriment of those sent to 
disposal operations. Rapidly analysing the individual items, the growth is attributable 
to the significant production of end-of-life tyres, due to the disposal of the tyres of 
two RTGs, sold since they were not used. The same applies to CER 160120 (glass for 
end-of-life vehicles) and to CER 170405 and 170407 (metals), always coming from 
RTGs demolition. The other unusual data is related to the production of paper and 
cardboard, due to the disposal of a company archive carried out in the summer. On 
the other hand, the production of waste containing oil and the associated absorbent 
material is in line, with the previous years, as spills at yard in 2019 were equal in number 
compared to 2018 (see paragraph 5.4.1).
Such quantities are added together with the percentages of urban waste that are 
collected inside the terminal in special bins and gathered by the assigned municipal 
company.
EL - 10 ANNI Rollup GG x SOCI.indd   1 21/05/19   15:06
Specifically we refer to:
• Unsorted waste sent for disposal;
• paper and plastic packaging, sent for recovery.
EL -E 1L0 -  A1N0 NAIN RNoI llRuopl lGupG G xG S Ox CSIO.inCdI.din  d 1d   1 The terminal is not required to keep ac2c1/0251//1095 / 1 195  : 0165:06ounts of these types of waste, therefore no 
quantitative data is available, in any case we can quantify a reduction of about 120,000 
plastic bottles per year thanks to their elimination from supplies and positioning of fixed 
drinking water dispensers inside the offices.
90 | SECH • TDT 2019 Sustainability Report