OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
The UN Global Compact is also a call to contribute to achieving the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), societal goals 
at the heart of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development adopted in 2015 and aimed at ending extreme poverty, fighting 
inequality and injustice, and protecting the planet by 2030.
In working towards these goals, we not only have focused on the ones that relate directly to our business, but also on the 
ones connected to our ability to create value in the areas where we operate. Specific local initiatives have been carried out in 
areas such as socio-economic development, education and professional training, environment and health promotion.
In Bolivia, near the area where a Saipem rig is located, a public health conference was organised to 
promote awareness on the importance of the application of preventive practices of healthy lifestyles 
and hygiene, in support of the Bolivian government significant efforts to increase access to safe water 
and sanitation, as well as to improve hygiene practices. The key point was the prevention of diseases 
that have a higher prevalence in children under 5 years of age. This activity consisted of teaching and 
reinforcing the basic principles of personal hygiene, washing hands, oral hygiene, the use of home 
remedies to prevent seasonal diseases.
90 3
Around   adults and children took part in the workshop;   communities involved
In order to upgrade technology to provide clean 
energy, in India we implemented Solar DC (Direct 
Current) electricity system for two schools: the 
GGHSS - Government Girls Higher Secondary 
School in Chennai, and for an educational 
institution in a village in the district of Tiruchi in the 
state of Tamil Nadu.
June 19 was a special day for the children of the  Students Industrial Work Experience Scheme 
Tuzolana community (Angola) because it coincided  (SIWES) is a training programme initiated by the 
with the inauguration of the Mobile School. The  Federal Government of Nigeria, designed to 
school project with two classrooms, an office  expose and prepare students of tertiary institutions 
for teachers, school equipment, toilets and a  (Universities, Polytechnics & Colleges of Education) 
football field was implemented and financed by  for real work situations they are likely to encounter 
Petromar (Saipem’s subsidiary in Angola) with the  after graduation. In this training, students are 
participation of the Vandumbu project. It can hold up  exposed to work methods and techniques of 
to 43 children. The creation of this school is a step  handling various tasks in operations and undergo 
forward towards solving the problem of children  relevant HSE training to assist them in working 
studying in unacceptable conditions. safely. With this approach, we help to bridge the 
gap between theory and practice and make the 
transition upon graduation to work relatively easier. 
The training (between 4 to 12 months) focuses on 
fields such as Coating & Painting, Quality Assurance 
& Control, Project Control, Assets Management, etc.
560
more than 
 
students involved over the past 13 years
31
 students trained in 2018
 Further information on the SDGs can be found throughout 
 
the Report. Look for the SDG icons.
14