4 8 10
1 3 4
8 10 13
13 14 15 17
13 14 15
7
4 8 10
1 3 4
1 5 8 8 10 15
3 17 17
1 3 4
15
8 10 17
INEFOP is the National Institute of Employment and Vocational training in Angola; it provides training 
and also job guidance and certification of competencies. Saipem-Petromar is very concerned about 
the training of the young generation in Angola, so in 2018 and in partnership with INEFOP, we welcomed 
a group of 90 young students for a 3-month technical internship at Ambriz yard to increase their 
employability by developing professional skills. The students were mentored by Saipem-Petromar 
supervisors in several disciplines like piping and welding during their internship.
With the sponsorship of Ersai (Saipem’s local company  Fundación para la Sustentabilidad 
in Kazakhstan), the Nurlan Kapparov Foudation  del Gaviotín Chico aims to 
implemented a project to provide charitable assistance  contribute to the conservation 
to gifted children, children from low-income families, and  and protection of a bird in danger 
children with disabilities living in rural areas of the country.  of extinction, the Little Tern 
The foundation proposed a new approach to education,  (Sternula lorata), generating highly 
creating a programme focused on providing quality  qualified strategies and procedures 
mathematics education in rural areas, so that rural children  compatible with the industrial 
can have equal opportunities for admission to prestigious  development of the Mejillones 
universities. Furthermore, a rehabilitation centre for  commune. As a member of the 
disabled children was opened and the construction  foundation and being involved in the 
began of a dormitory for teachers of the regional physical  construction of the water pipeline 
and mathematical school for gifted children in South  in Chile crossing through the area 
Kazakhstan. in which the bird nests, Saipem 
is committed to fully supporting 
foundation activities. Among other 
things, the foundation deals with 
dissemination of information for the 
protection of the Little Tern. It also 
controls access and circulation by 
means of a perimeter fence/physical 
protection of the work fronts located 
in the Gaviotín Chico nesting areas, 
disposal of nets and relocation 
of traps on work front structures 
in nesting areas of the Little 
Tern. There is an environmental 
supervisor to ensure compliance 
with these measures.
15