COMMITMENT, RESULTS AND OBJECTIVES
material topic sdgs Commitment 2018 Results 2019 Objectives
Climate change  Gradually reduce  • Issue of the four-year Group strategic  • Implement the actions 
prevention and GHG  dependence on the fossil  plan for reduction of GHG emissions.  defined in the Strategic 
emissions  fuels business focusing  The implementation of the initiatives  plan, setting an overall 
on less climate-impacting  identified in the plan will result, in the  target to reduce GHG 
fields, investing in  period, in a saving of COeq emissions  emissions by 120 kt COeq 
2 2
renewable technologies,  equal to around 120,000 tonnes. within 2022 (2017 baseline), 
and developing more  • Update of the air emission estimation  and monitoring the results 
sustainable fossil fuel  methodology and increase of the  obtained.
uses and diversifying  reporting boundaries. •  Fine-tune the Strategic 
activities. • Third party certification obtained for  plan considering the first 
the updated methodology. results obtained.
Energy efficiency Optimise energy  • Perform energy and GHG reduction  • Continue to perform 
consumption and  assessment on rigs, vessels and  energy and GHG reduction 
investigate renewable  onshore projects. assessments. 
energy sources. • Implementation of several energy  • Implement the Best Energy 
saving and GHG reduction initiatives on  Practices Booklet for 
vessels, at sites and projects. onshore rigs and offshore 
• Implementation of a Product Business  drilling vessels.
Plan for the Green Technologies  • Installation of energy 
and Renewables Product Line of the  measuring system for two 
XSIGHT division. Italian offices.
People safety Reinforce safety process,  • Extension of the ISO 14001 and OHSAS  • Pursuing continuous 
culture and competencies  18001 certifications to subsidiaries. improvement promoting 
held by our people,  • Improvement of the TRIFR: value of  and developing a safety 
including those of  0.44 recorded. culture, and strengthening 
vendors. • Continued implementation of HSE  the HSE audit planning 
campaigns and programmes (LIHS,  system, covering project 
Dropped Object, Keep Your Hands  worksites too.
Safe, Life Saving rules Walkabout tool)  • Complete the migration of 
to reinforce safety messages. OHSAS 18001 certification 
to the new ISO 45001:2018 
standard on Occupational 
health and safety 
management systems.
• Improve the Total 
Recordable Incident 
Frequency Rate (TRIFR).
 
Safe operations,  Run safe operations  • Development and launch of the  Monitor the implementation 
asset integrity and  for people and the  upgraded version of Vessel Safety  of asset integrity KPIs across 
process safety environment and ensure  Case for two vessels. Divisions.
integrity of assets. • Launch of Asset Integrity KPI 
monitoring and dashboard reporting.
• Review and update of Internal Asset 
Integrity Management System 
Standards.
Spill prevention and  Reduce and mitigate  • Oil and Chemical Mapping finalised for  Correctly map critical oil spill 
response the environmental  all yards.  areas on vessels/drilling rigs/
risk associated with  • Spill Risk Assessment based on Oil  fabrication yards/projects 
oil and chemical spills,  & Chemical Mapping results finalised  and address them in the 
ensuring that appropriate  for 5 vessels and 2 yards. relevant documentation.
prevention and response  • Spill prevention and response training 
measures are in place. included in the projects training matrix 
and delivered to people involved in 
activities at risk of spill and to Spill 
Emergency response team.
Technology,  Align Saipem’s business  • R&D expenditure was 32.5 million euro. • Pursue disruptive 
operational  offer to business needs  • 29 new patents filed in 2018 and 2,442  innovation solutions.
innovation and  and the market scenario. patents in force. • Maintain the high 
research • Two ‘Technology and Innovation Days’  investment in technology 
organised on board of S7000 and in  innovation.
Algiers. 
18