Continue to:  • Among the first Italian  Run operations in  Anti-corruption and 
• provide periodic training and refresher  companies to achieve ISO  compliance with ethical  ethical business 
courses to promote employee  37001:2016 Anti-Corruption  business best practices. practices
awareness; Certification.
• maintain an adequate system of  • More than 4,000 employees 
internal control and risk management; trained on the OM&C 
• periodically review the OM&C Model  Model, Code of Ethics and 
and related procedures; Anti-corruption.
• reinforce transparency in 
communications and relations with 
stakeholders.
• Define and implement a 3-year  • Training programme on HLR  Comply with international  Human and labour 
training and awareness programme at  delivered to more than 100  best practices on  rights
operational level in risk areas for Human  Managing Directors, Branch  human and labour rights 
and Labour rights. Managers, Human and Industrial  and monitor actual 
• Strengthen human rights awareness  Relations Managers, covering  compliance.
among company functions involved in  85% of the identified resources.
stakeholder relation activities. • Launch of a customised 
eLearning course for 
international workers on topics 
such as human and labour rights.
Establish a dedicated unit for Cyber  • Clauses regarding the respect  Guarantee the security  Security practices
Security management to strengthen IT  of human and labour rights  of people and of the 
security safeguards. included in contracts with  company’s assets, 
vendors of security services  considering regulations 
and goods. and their evolution, the
• 94% of bids covered by  specificity of business 
security aspects. areas, the international 
contexts and of 
technologies used.
Extend the delivery of the internal  • Continuation of supply chain  Promote a sustainable  Ethical supply chain
human rights and supply chain  social responsibility campaign. supply chain.
programme to the all Procurement  • Delivery of the internal 
functions. human rights and supply chain 
programme involving more than 
230 employees.
Launch of a new skill mapping  • Dissemination of the  Keep employee skills in  Training and 
programme. Leadership Model. line with business needs. development
• Improvement of employees’ 
technical and behavioural skills.
• Support for generational 
change.
Design and set-up new process  • Launch of an important  Develop the company’s  Talent attraction 
dedicated to the Millennial Generation  Graduate Programme for  image to retain and attract  and retention
(gamification, video interview, test on  university students.  talented people.
line). • Implementation of various 
Launch the Alumni Sinergia, the  initiatives and programmes to 
community dedicated to students who  form and attract students.
participated in the Sinergia Programme. • Emphasise employer branding 
initiatives and Saipem’s 
commitment through social 
  communication.
• Continuous commitment in spreading  • Continue promoting and  Guarantee a healthy  Health 
a positive health culture and awareness  consolidating a positive health  workplace. and well-being
among Saipem’s workforce. culture among workers, at 
• Ensure implementation of Health  project, yards and vessel level.
prevention, protection and promotion  • Implementation of e-health 
programmes at all worksites including  programmes and telemedicine.
Occupational Health Management.
• Lower the incidence rate of 
communicable diseases.
• Enhance current and develop new 
e-health and telemedicine programmes.
2019 Objectives 2018 Results Commitment sdgs material topic
19