LOOKING TO THE FUTURE
Scenario
The global energy industry is facing one of the most challenging phases in history. In a period where an increasing share of 
the world population is seeking access to energy sources to satisfy basic life needs, the dramatic effects of climate change 
are making it evident that the world has to profoundly rethink its energy demand satisfaction model in order to accomplish 
sustainable development goals.
Energy efficiency, energy grids, diversification of energy sources, smart mobility and artificial intelligence are all elements, 
which all players in the market have to consider, in order to allow each of them to contribute correctly to the overall efforts 
toward a more sustainable global energy supply.
We are now in an era of transition from oil, gas and coal to new energy sources. Since the implementation of new energy 
infrastructures will require time, Oil & Gas are expected to remain the main energy sources for the next decades, with natural 
gas playing a key ‘transition energy source’ role. 
In this context, in recent years the oil industry has faced its toughest crisis since the late nineties. Volatility of oil prices and of 
the share prices of oil & gas industry players (oil companies, oil service companies and contractors) is the new norm, which 
the market has to live with. However, deterioration in sentiment towards the overall Oil & Gas sector is now having a relatively 
limited impact on sanctioning of new projects by oil and gas companies in order to accompany the energy transition.
Alongside efforts to reduce coal consumption, we believe renewable energy sources will significantly grow and 
contribute to de-carbonisation of energy supplies in all scenarios, supported by technology improvements, social 
support and economies of scale.
The present
To better achieve our objectives, we have adopted a new organisational model to entrust each business with greater 
autonomy and responsibility, creating five divisions dedicated to:
•  Offshore Engineering & Construction
•  Onshore Engineering & Construction
•  Offshore Drilling
•  Onshore Drilling
•  XSIGHT, providing engineering activities and services with high added value
Each division has decision-making power over strategies, partnerships, commercial policy, project execution, investments 
and technology, while the portfolio strategy remains with the CEO.
fshore E &C nshore E &C ore Drilling ore Drillin g XSIG H T
Of O sh h
s
f
f n
O O
20