SAIPEM STRATEGY
A sustainable business strategy Global Solutions Provider in 
all segments of the Energy 
Industry
In order to cope with the volatility characterising the market context, all players in the 
Oil & Gas industry have taken steps to deal with the changing world in recent years. 
They have done this through a continued focus on the implementation of efficiency 
programmes, capacity reduction and rejuvenation, integration of services (which is 
increasingly important in all segments) and – last but not least – innovation, to make  Low-carbon innovative 
field development projects cheaper, more efficient and less risky.
solutions for clients, tackling 
In this context, Saipem’s ambition is to be recognised as the Global Solutions Provider 
the climate change challenge
in all segments of the Energy Industry. In line with that concept, Saipem has designed 
a sustainable business strategy favouring low-carbon innovative solutions for 
clients, with cost efficient development schemes based on modularised solutions, as 
well as projects developed in phases. In this regard, technological innovation – which 
has been a key component of Saipem DNA for the last 60 years – will play an essential 
role and the Digital Transformation that Saipem has started is complementing process 
Technological Innovation and 
improvements by providing additional tools and capabilities to support technological 
Digital Transformation
development at every level.
Geopolitical dynamics will remain very important on a global basis for the energy world 
and Saipem is working to diversify further its geographic coverage by expanding in 
new, promising areas such as the Asia-Pacific region, where energy demand is set to 
grow significantly over time.
Through its new division named ‘XSIGHT’, increasingly recognised as an important 
Transfer offshore surface 
player in early engagement activities with clients, Saipem is bringing the experience of 
an EPCI contractor to the early definition phase of a project, suggesting cost effective  production facilities to the 
and sustainable solutions from the conceptual feasibility studies to the basic and Front  seabed
End engineering works.
In Offshore, we are committed to promoting the gradual transfer of surface production 
facilities to the seabed, through the development of technological solutions for subsea 
processing. To boost this new approach, we have developed a totally innovative 
oil spill intervention system and we are also promoting our Life of Field model. 
This model leverages technology and our strategic presence in key countries, as  Exploitation of gas as an 
well as our trusted relationship with clients to reduce operating and maintenance  essential component of onshore 
costs, along with reduced consumption of resources and of energy, thanks to remote  strategy
operations of vehicles used for subsea inspection and intervention. Our competencies 
in Offshore Wind Farms (including the new design for floating wind farms) and the 
development of subsea CO separation systems (such as our HiSep) will allow us to 
2 
further participate in global efforts to tackle the climate change challenge, leveraging 
on our capabilities, our yards, our vessels and possible selected growth investment 
opportunities in the segment. Carbon neutral operations and 
Saipem Onshore strategic repositioning will come from targeted geographic expansion 
green technologies throughout 
and a more balanced portfolio, where exploitation of gas will be an essential 
the entire onshore EPC value 
component. In this context, the LNG segment, one of the most promising for the 
chain
transport of gas over long distances from production sites to consumption centres 
around the world. Furthermore, carbon neutral operations and green technologies 
throughout the entire onshore EPC value chain remain one of our most important 
long-term strategic targets. Among our actions, our commercial efforts in biofuels 
production plants segment and the Carbon Capture and Sequestration technologies 
Diversified business segment 
are worth mentioning and are where we are concentrating specific efforts.
portfolio in E&C
Finally, our diversified business segment portfolio in E&C, including Maintenance 
Modifications and Operation (recently reorganised to maximise internal synergies), 
decommissioning (alleviating clients’ needs to manage different phases of a project) 
and infrastructures, will continue complementing our business portfolio, further 
strengthening the sustainability of our business model.
XSIGHT brings the experience 
The set of goals and actions we have identified allow us to best implement our 
of an EPCI contractor to the 
long-term sustainability vision and strategies, to tackle climate change challenges, 
early definition phase of a 
to properly manage our business risks and opportunities and to target sustainable 
development objectives and long-term value creation for all our stakeholders. project
21