COMMITTED to fighting CLIMATE CHANGE
Although the link between climate-related indicators 
The Task Force On Climate-Related 
and financial impacts is complex, climate-related risks 
Financial Disclosures and their impact
and opportunities undoubtedly affect the future strategy 
and perspectives of an international and multi-business  In June 2017, the Task force on Climate-related Financial 
technological solutions provider like Saipem. Disclosures (TCFD) published recommendations for 
In fact, Saipem can play an important role in helping and  effective disclosure of climate-related financial risks.
supporting its clients meeting the needs of a fast changing  The Financial Stability Board (FSB) established the 
world. Task Force in December 2015 to develop a set of 
voluntary, consistent disclosure recommendations 
Following the recommendations of the Task force on  for use by companies in providing information to 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), we have now  investors, lenders and insurance underwriters about 
published our first disclosure on the topic ‘Tackling Climate  their climate-related financial risks. The 32 industry 
Change’, approved by Saipem BoD on January 15, 2019. members of the Task Force, drawn from a wide range of 
The document proves our commitment to providing effective  industries and countries, finalised the recommendations 
disclosure to our stakeholders on the issues that could  after extensive public engagement and consultation. 
influence company operations and to demonstrating how we  The TCFD developed four recommendations on 
are equipped to run our business in the long-term. climate-related financial disclosures that are applicable 
We analyse and monitor the potential implications of climate  to organisations across sectors and jurisdictions.
change on our business and operations, and any other  Following its Action Plan on Financing Sustainable 
issues in the medium/long-term, and have integrated this  Growth released in March 2018, the Technical Expert 
consideration in the Company’s strategic plans. Group on Sustainable Finance (a technical working 
group set up by the European Commission) has recently 
Climate Strategy
published its Report ‘Climate-related Disclosures‘.
The report compares the TCFD’s recommended 
In Saipem, the assessment of the long-term drivers of the  disclosures to the elements of the Directive 2014/95/EU 
industry is based on the analysis of different climate-related highlighting the common points. The report proposes 
scenarios, prepared on the basis of a series of input and  climate-related disclosures, differentiated based on 
analysis carried out internally and externally in order to pick  the companies’ exposure to climate change, to assist 
up on the main drivers of the energy industry, as well as  the European Commission in its revision of the current 
the emerging trends on technologies, policies, legislation,  Non-Binding Guidelines of the Directive 2014/95/EU.
socio-political aspects, etc.
The scenario analysis is applied to the entire Company, 
covering the macro and energy trends up to 2050 that  We plan to gradually reduce our dependence on the 
have an impact on the main drivers of Saipem’s business.  fossil fuels business by extending the offer to our clients 
These scenarios are updated at least annually and the results  in less climate-impacting fields, investing in renewable 
are presented to the Board of Directors and to the Top  technologies, and by developing more sustainable fossil 
Management. fuels uses and diversifying our activities. We are making 
Scenario analysis is one of the elements considered by the  significant efforts to improve the efficiency of our assets and 
divisions for preparation of the Strategic Plan. operations to reduce GHG emissions.
 More details can be found in ‘Tackling Climate Change’ report.
 
 To read our article on ‘Tackling climate change’ click here
 
Key pillars of Saipem’s strategy to reduce its dependency on fossil fuels
Diversification based on  Offering solutions to optimise  Improvements in energy 
emerging new green technology  clients carbon management efficiency for Saipem operations
opportunities and non 
energy-related markets
24