Increase revenues in renewable business  Financial impact calculations consider  R&D investment and innovation efforts
segment to reduce climate-related  the market outlook and current tendering 
impacts (offshore wind farm, biofuel,  activities and an estimation of future 
Concentrated Solar Power, biomass,  Saipem revenues in these segments
geothermal)
Increase revenues in consolidated  Market opportunities in terms of value  Strengthen commercial efforts in these 
business segments to reduce  of railway projects for ongoing tenders  market segments
climate-related impacts (e.g. railway  or projects to be awarded within next 
infrastructures) 3 years may are significant. The CCS 
market will be strongly influenced 
by worldwide carbon tax evolution, 
technology development and utilisation 
of CO as raw material (e.g. methanol 
2
and urea). CO-rich Gas field market 
2
is estimated to be around €55 billion. 
Saipem’s financial impact is estimated 
to be a share of this market 
Apply technologies already available  Project value estimation at 2020 R&D investment in technology 
to implement CCS projects and  development, new partnership 
develop new and economically viable  agreements. Strengthen commercial 
technologies to be able to unlock CO- efforts in these market segments
2
rich gas field projects
Offer more efficient and cost-optimised  Annual cost saving calculated in terms of  R&D investment in new products and 
solutions commercially available or newly  reduced fuel and electricity consumption  solutions, new partnership agreements. 
developed to clients costs Strengthen commercial efforts in these 
market segments
Offer more efficient and cost-optimised  Annual cost saving calculated in term of  Amount spent to promote energy 
solutions through energy efficient  reduced fuel and electricity consumption  efficiency
solutions in vessels and yards costs
■  ■  ■ 
Business Opportunity  Explanation of financial impact  Strategy to seize the opportunity
The role of the Board and its committees
The Board has been increasingly involved in the internal strategic discussion on climate-related issues and their 
implications on business strategy and related plans.
An annual workshop is organised for Board members and Division Managers to discuss the strategic outlook. 
During the workshop organised in September 2018, the Board discussed the implications of recent international and
geo-political events on energy markets. The Sustainability, Scenarios and Corporate Governance Committee 
(previously called the Corporate Governance Committee and Scenarios) has the task of assisting the Board of 
Directors by fulfilling a preparatory, consultative and advisory role in assessments and decision-making processes 
with regard to the Sustainability, Corporate Governance and the review of scenarios considered in the preparation of 
the Strategic Plan. The committee, chaired by the Chairman of the Board, addressed the topic of climate change on 
several occasions in meetings held in 2017. The Audit and Risk Committee has been entrusted with the duty to consult 
and support the Board of Directors’ decisions in matters relating to the internal control and risk management system. 
The results of Enterprise Risk Assessment, which may include climate-related risks, are submitted for review and advice 
to the Committee every six months. The Managerial Performance Plan, drawn up on the basis of the Strategic Plan, 
is approved by the Board of Directors of Saipem on the proposal of the Compensation and Nomination Committee, 
assigning the objectives set out therein to the CEO of Saipem. Subsequently, the CEO communicates the objectives set 
out, so that they are shared and implemented throughout the relevant organisational structure.
In 2018, the Board of Directors approved the Company’s objectives, including those related to climate change, within a
comprehensive sustainability MBO with a weight of 15% of the variable executive compensation. The achievement of 
these objectives is then monitored on a half-year basis.
26