INNOVATE AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE
the energy transition. We are carrying out several efforts in the 
Technologies and innovation are among the keys for reducing  LNG (Liquefied Natural Gas) sector:
our own CO emissions. To this end two main actions are  •  to define proprietary small scale liquefaction and 
2
being addressed: running business operations maximising  re-gasification of Natural Gas, showing good promise for 
energy efficiency (implementing specific assessment to  becoming a flexible tool to support sustainable mobility in 
identify and develop innovative energy efficiency initiatives  the near future;
applied to vessels and yards), and focusing on digital  •  to develop Floating LNG (FLNG), including the new 
transformation (changing how the Company works to  Liqueflex™ technology.
boost productivity and chase new value propositions). Most  Efforts are continuing to keep our Snamprogetti™ Urea 
importantly, to enlarge the offer to our clients in less climate- Technology at the highest level of competitiveness, also 
impacting fields acting as an innovative solutions provider,  by decreasing energy consumption and reducing the 
further fields are the object of investigation: renewables and  environmental impact through highly innovative solutions.
energy storage (hydrogen), a sustainable use of ‘necessary’  At the same time, innovative activities are being designed for 
fossil fuels and the design of new hybrid configurations. the reduction of Gas Flaring.
In terms of renewables, the technology efforts are mostly  Furthermore, the capability to manage the CO value chain 
2
dedicated to concentrated solar and bio-refineries (as  becomes mandatory with the final aim of continuing to exploit 
an example, Saipem signed an exclusive agreement with  the fossil fuels but definitely reducing the related emissions. 
California Ethanol & Power Llc, for the realisation of a  In this framework, our activities focus on mastering the 
low carbon emission plant for the production of ethanol,  whole Carbon Capture & Storage (CCS) chain, pursuing 
electricity, bio-methane and other secondary products from  CO re-utilisation options, scouting emerging CO capture 
2 2
renewable sources), to new solutions for advanced wind farms  technologies and building a distinctive technology portfolio.
and floating solar parks, emerging marine technologies such  The application of novel hybrid approaches is based on 
as wave and tidal, energy storage and hydrogen as a clean  the adoption of renewable technologies applied to the 
energy carrier produced by water with renewable energy. development of Oil&Gas operations. It will be fruitful to lower 
Regarding the second point, Natural Gas is the cleanest and  the overall CO emissions and many concepts are under 
2
least CO-emitting fossil source and will play a relevant role in  investigation.
2
REPORTING EMISSION PERFORMANCE
TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS
Year  GHG emissions/revenues*  Scope 1 emissions  Scope 2 emissions  Scope 3 emissions
    (kt COeq)  (kt COeq)  (kt COeq)
2 2 2
2016  124.5  1,203.40  38.90  -
2017  144.4   1,299.7   37.50  -
2018  162.4  1,348.83  35.68  58.1
(*) Tonnes of carbon dioxide (Scope 1 + Scope 2) equivalent produced per €1 million in revenue.
2006 2008 2009 2011 2015 2018
Development  Update of  Issue of a  Revision and  Adjustment  Update of the 
of Emission  Saipem  specific  certification  of the  methodology 
Estimation  Emission  Emission  of Emission  methodology  certified 
Methodology  Estimation  Estimation  Estimation  to suite more  by an 
Manual Methodology  Criteria with  Manual by an  Saipem  independent 
Manual the 2008  independent  applications body and 
methodology body and  revision of 
update of the  the relative 
criteria criteria
Saipem Emission Estimation Methodology is aligned  certified methodology, including the GHG deriving from 
with the most important International Standards for the  the combustion of the fuel used to produce electricity that 
calculation of air emissions and it has been certified since  Saipem purchases (Scope 2 emissions) and starting the 
2011 by a third party in accordance with the principles of  process of calculating Saipem’s Scope 3 emissions, by 
ISO 14064 ‘Greenhouse gases’. including GHG deriving from employee air travel for business. 
In 2018, the Saipem methodology was updated and  The certification covers the internally developed software 
increased its boundaries of application, accounting also N O  for emission calculation.
2
emissions, and their contribution to direct GHG emissions.  The new methodology will be officially applied from 2018 
For the first time we included indirect GHG emissions in our  data onwards.
27