TAKEAWAY FROM 2018:
THE FLOOR TO THE CEO AND THE CHAIRMAN
The end of the year is a perfect moment for all of us to look back on what has happened, 
taking stock of the targets we reached and to prepare for the new year’s goals. 
Stefano Cao, Saipem CEO, and Francesco Caio, Saipem Chairman, are pleased to share 
with all of you, our stakeholders, some highlights of 2018 for Saipem, with a special 
focus on people, innovation, commitment to fig1hting climate change and safety.
PEOPLE
Managing change is a constant factor for an organisation, as well as 
a person. However, in 2018, this aspect was particularly accentuated 
since we were, and still are, in the middle of transformations. 
The energetic transition guides us through a new energy mix, a 
re-thinking process that helps us to identify a better shape to be 
in the market; furthermore, we are a new Saipem – new identity, 
business strategy and diversification, new organisational model – all 
contributing to open new business opportunities.
It is in these shifting moments that the human factor plays a 
fundamental role, and this is the reason why the first 2018 takeaway 
is focused on people. People are the fuel in the engine for change: 
more than 34,000 individuals and 123 nationalities, together, bring 
competencies and new ideas, passion and determination, expertise 
and ingenuity to offer our existing and potential clients tailor-made 
solutions. Always with a great deal of attention on the sustainability 
of our business.
The sustainability of our business passes indeed through the value 
we give to our people. The opportunity to enhance their skills and to 
grow their competencies, our capability to attract new talents and 
retain the ones we already have, our commitment to contributing 
to the development and employment of local people, the respect 
and promotion of human and labour rights for our people and along 
our supply chain. A commitment reinforced at international and 
institutional levels by continuing to be part of the United Nations 
Global Compact and by our actions to advance the Sustainable 
Development Goals.
This historic moment is challenging but it is an opportunity to build 
a sustainable future. This is the reason why we have been investing 
in enhancing our skills and know-how, together with innovation 
capability, to propose new and more sustainable solutions to the 
market.
4
SAFETY
Our last takeaway is on something I would not simply call a priority, but the essence of our operations and daily activity, 
the safety of our personnel and our subcontractors. We are proud because our HSE performances are improving year 
after year, thanks also to our programmes to disseminate our culture and our leadership in this field. Statistics prove 
that between 2017 and 2018 the Total Recordable Incident Frequency Rate and the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 
decreased by 14% and 7%, respectively.
Saipem started to re-think the culture of safety in 2007, launching the Leadership in Safety (then Leadership in Health 
and Safety, LiHS) programme to continuously improve Saipem’s safety culture and the safety culture of our partners 
in our activities. In eleven years, almost 10,000 events have been organised, seeing more than 200,000 participants. 
The programme has also proudly been exported outside Saipem to many other organisations and institutions to initiate 
a safety cultural change.
Coming back to Saipem, our journey to a safer and better future is well represented by the new Health and Safety 
Vision where respect and the well-being of people come first, knowledge and competences are shared, trust and 
collaboration are valued, technology and innovation are keys to success.
2