ENERGY EFFICIENCY OF OFFSHORE VESSELS 
concurred with lower specific oil consumption.
In 2018, the ERSAI yard (Kazakhstan) continued the 
implementation of its action plan for energy saving and  For years, we have implemented an initiative for route 
efficiency: the replacement of old fluorescent, incandescent  optimisation of our offshore and drilling vessels through 
and arc mercury lamps with LED lights and the installation  the use of route optimisation software. The best route is 
of new ones. In 2018, the lighting system was improved  detected each day by taking weather conditions and marine 
replacing additional 8,000 lamps with LED lights.  currents into consideration. Route optimisation has become 
The expected energy saving due to the implementation of  a regular and good practice within our organisation since 
the initiative is about 1,600 MWh/year that is equal to 751  all masters of our fleet are required to use the dedicated 
tonnes of GHG per year. Also the new part of the training  software during transits on routes with medium or high 
centre, built using efficient construction materials and  potential (transoceanic routes with medium or high potential 
building technologies, contributed to achieving the highest  of economic and environmental benefits).
efficiency, contributing to an annual saving of 22.41 MWh  In 2018, the software was used for 8 voyages by 6 vessels, 
and 10 tonnes of GHG. with the following results.
YARDS: 2018 SAVINGS VESSELS: 2018 SAVINGS
686.32 547.26
 
Tonnes of fuel Tonnes of fuel saved
1,002 1,700
MWh of electric energy Tonnes of CO eq emissions avoided
2 
ENERGY EFFICIENCY 
A second initiative is the Saipem eco Operations (SeO) 
IN AL ZOUR REFINERY PROJECT
Campaign, launched in 2018 to monitor and bring to light 
all the best practices that can be implemented on each 
In 2018, Al Zour Refinery Project in Kuwait saw a joint  vessel, leading to savings in terms of fuel and reduced GHG 
commitment with subcontractors to implement energy  emissions. The campaign consists of different phases: 
efficiency initiatives. One example is the Sun Light initiative.  the energy assessment to identify SeO; launching of the 
The latest photovoltaic technology, a solar powered barrier  campaign on-board; focal point and workgroup identification; 
warning light package, was used, in line with the following  cascading to the full crew; SeO implementation and 
economic and environmental benefits: reporting / Feedback and Review. All the implementable 
•  Utilisation of solar energy, which is free. best practices are identified during the first phase: the 
•  Maintenance and cost free up to 3 years. energy assessments are indeed crucial since they assess 
•  Reduces removal of non-functional lights. all the energy uses of the vessel, area by area, to determine 
•  Reduces expensive battery replacement. the breakdown of consumption, to identify and analyse the 
•  Cost savings of battery disposal. feasibility of possible energy efficiency measures.
As third example, construction vessels are improving 
AL ZOUR REFINERY PROJECT: 2018 SAVINGS
their lighting system, with a 4-year LED replacement plan. 
Among the fleet, Castoro 10 has already taken the first steps, 
66
starting to switch to LED for the illumination of winch rooms: 
since implementation, this has reduced on board lighting 
Tonnes of CO eq  energy demand by 3.5 MWh and, consequently, saved 0.89 
2 
tonnes of fuel and 2.77 tonnes of CO .
20.62 2
Tonnes of fuel
29