developed by the HSE department and can support in the  fabrication yard, testing the following LSR: dropped objects, 
elimination of those barriers. seat belt, suspended load, confined space and gas testing. 
Six HSE tools were explored during the day: HSE training,Task  During the post-walkabout meeting, all the observations 
familiarisation cards and on-the-job training, Self-verification,  issued during the walkabout were collected and discussed, 
Supervisor HSE performance evolution, Competence  and a checklist was prepared with actions assigned to the 
assessment, Life Saving Rules management walkabout toolkit. function in charge.
Implementing the Life Saving Rules management walkabout 
One of the best practices of the day:  tool gave yard management the opportunity to identify any 
the HSE performance evaluation programme  gaps in the yard management systems, and to intervene as 
for supervisors and superintendents quickly as possible ensuring the continuous improvement of 
The programme was launched at Saipem Indonesia Karimun  the HSE management systems.
premises in September 2016 aimed at keeping safety 
68,000
standards at the highest level, promoting a constant focus and 
more than 
boosting the safety commitment from all levels of hierarchy.
The HSE performance evaluation is based on a criteria  Attendance in 2018
that includes the following HSE parameters: the number 
of personnel injuries that occurred, attendance to the HSE 
1,800
training courses, management walkaround, toolbox talking 
more than 
(TBT) participation, and number of SHOC card issuance 
by the team. Between 2017 and 2018 the programme was  LSR events organised in 2018
extended to supervisors and superintendents and new 
parameters added (i.e. number of disciplinary measures 
Enhancing internal knowledge 
issued, permit to work correct implementation, PPE 
at the Schiedam Training centre
compliance, environmental criteria).
The HSE performance evaluation is carried out on a monthly 
basis for all yard supervisors and superintendents, monitored  The Schiedam Training Centre is a competence hub set up 
and compared with the yard HSE TRI Frequency rate: it was  in 2012 in the Netherlands to coordinate several complex 
noted that positive HSE performance of supervisors and  HSE training courses. Since competence and knowledge 
superintendents led to a decrease in the yard TRI frequency  become highly critical when it comes to safety, initiatives 
rate and vice versa. In this framework Karimun yard saw higher  shall also focus on strengthening the technical, operational 
involvement in training courses, an increase of supervisor  and communication skills of the HSE professionals who train 
accountability, an improvement of the safety culture on the  and coach people operating on-board our vessels and in our 
yard, a better sharing of unsafe acts and lessons learnt during  sites.
monthly HSE meetings and a constant focus on safety. All these  In this framework the HSE competence programme was 
results contributed to the success of the HSE performance  internally designed relying on the experience and knowledge 
evaluation tool and, once shared during the Yard HSE Day, it was  of Saipem HSE operation management and involving the 
decided to implement it in all Saipem yards starting from 2019. most senior HSE professionals and trainers. The training 
course has a good balance between theory and practice, 
The Life Saving Rules campaign: 
particularly when it comes to topics like Confined space, 
the walkabout tool
Working at height and Asbestos training in which first-hand 
experience is fundamental to build up the confidence and 
The Saipem Life Saving Rules (LSR) campaign, launched  skills necessary to perform the task. From a practical point of 
in late 2015, is the customised gold standard for safety  view, this is possible thanks to Confined space and Working 
compliance within Saipem. In 2017, the development of a new  at height simulators. However, since communication plays 
tool, the LSR management walkabout, began and in 2018, the  a critical role in the HSE competence programme, specific 
efficiency of its implementation was assessed. For example,  modules on training the trainers and public speaking 
in Nigeria at the SCNL yard, the successful implementation of  opportunities are disseminated throughout the course.
this new tool was due to the systematic approach consisting  The programme started at the end of 2017, reached its 7th 
of three phases: pre-walkabout meeting, during walkabout  session and has seen more than 80 people involved so 
meeting, post walkabout meeting. far. The feedback is mostly enthusiastic not only for the 
During the pre-walkabout meeting the area of the walkabout  technical benefits that everyone recognised but also for 
and an overview of the related activities and associated  the opportunity to share experiences, concerns and stories 
risks were defined. Then dedicated checklists focused on  which help to create connections between people.
specific LSR were used to gather information regarding the 
25,000
work environment, competence and knowledge in relation 
about 
to application of the rules, compliance of documentation 
available on site. Two walkabouts were organised in the  Training hours delivered in the Schiedam Training Centre
33