INSPIRING SAFETY ACROSS ITALY
1,000
The Safety Leadership Event (LSE) is the national 
more than 
event for Italia Loves Sicurezza, the movement that has 
produced over 1,000 events all across Italy in recent  Participants in the Safety Leadership Event
years to make workers, students and citizens aware of 
health and safety issues using non-conventional language 
based on the principles of participation and engagement.  Growing New Leaders in Safety, now in its third year, is 
The third and latest edition of the SLE focused on the  a training programme composed of several laboratories 
theme of choice, in other words the ability to get out  aimed at children and teenagers, from 3 to 18 years of 
of your comfort zone by choosing always to safeguard  age, with the goal of stimulating reflection on the theme 
health and safety. The day saw the participation of our  of health and safety, promoting more correct and positive 
Top Management and five leaders from major Italian  behaviours for themselves and for others. The project is 
companies, and the screening of the film ‘Choose Life’  also aimed at primary school teachers who learn how to 
(a film that won two prizes at the Cannes Film Festival).  conduct an experiential workshop focused on the topics 
It was also the opportunity to present work done by the  of Leadership in Health & Safety. Growing New Leaders in 
Università Cattolica di Milano to validate scientifically the  Safety is not just a programme for schools, but has also 
Leadership in Health & Safety method, created by Saipem  been integrated into Saipem's internal communications 
and shared with the industry through the LHS Foundation. activities.
“
3,300
The emotions in the accounts, the storytelling, it 
more than 
was in this way that the wave of change spread. 
Storytelling is a method that awakens the most  People involved in 2018
unconscious part of ourselves, the most creative and“ 
rebellious part. Thanks to these resources change 
can receive this decisive impulse.
Choice, Not Chance – Dropped Objects 
people operating in yards, vessels and projects. The main 
Campaign
goal of this session was to enable the focal points to train the 
site operational workgroup and sustain the vessel and yard 
In 2016, we launched a Dropped Objects Campaign (DROPS)  management in cascading the knowledge and awareness on 
aiming at reducing the number of dropped objects incidents.  the matter through all levels of the organisation.
During 2017 the evaluation of innovative approaches 
A perfect day in Saipem
to support the implementation of the campaign and its 
effectiveness, especially surrounding human aspects, 
started. The approach developed was to invert the negative  In correspondence with the celebration of the World day for 
choice to take a chance, and to instil a ‘drive’ in people to  Health and Safety, the Perfect Day ‘concept’ was launched 
make a positive choice. The key tool developed was a video  as part of our vision of zero accidents. The objective is 
called ‘Choice not Chance’ to reach the audience: emotional  to change the traditional mind-set of health, safety and 
involvement increases the effectiveness of engagement  environment into a dynamic and positive holistic approach, 
significantly, guiding the audience to take positive actions  focused on delivering excellence in safety performance, 
whenever planning and operating at height. By reaching for  protection of the environment, and asset preservation each 
an emotional connection, the film emphasizes the need for  and every day.
control elements to be in place, as well as the importance of  Employees are invited to think that what they do at work 
complying with them. Saipem’s implementation of the film  today can have a direct impact on how they will enjoy life 
within the dropped objects campaign, and the effects such  tomorrow.
media has on its audience, represent an innovative strategy 
for the industry. To us Perfect Day means that all employees and 
our contractors go home safely, the environment 
DROPS campaign in the Offshore division is not harmed, and no damage to assets is 
To better internalise the DROPS philosophy into our culture, a  recorded. This includes no injuries, and no serious 
series of DROPS surveys, consisting of thorough inspection  environmental spills or releases, no damage to our assets, 
and recording of all items and equipment, which might  and no high potential near misses.
fall, were carried out to establish an effective preventive  At the end of the working day, the announcement of 
system. The surveys were performed through inspections  another perfect day is spread throughout the project site. 
on 4 vessels of our fleet (S7000, FDS, FDS 2 and Khankendi  The performance of this initiative is measured by tracking, on 
Subsea Construction Vessel) and in 2 yards (STAR in Saudi  a daily and monthly basis the number of perfect days.
Arabia and Karimun in Indonesia). Furthermore, two training  In 2018, results are noteworthy and a total number of 167 
sessions for DROPS focal points were delivered involving 12  perfect days were recorded in the Offshore division.
34