Safety performance
Year  million man-hours  LTI Frequency Rate*  TRI Frequency Rate*
2016  259  0.20  0.78
2017  282  0.14  0.51
2018  273  0.13  0.44
Unfortunately, there were 4 fatalities involving subcontractor personnel in Turkey, Kazakhstan and Saudi Arabia, in two different sites, due to the following causes: a 
fall from height, a collision with a moving vehicle, a road accident and dismantling of a case containing a valve. In-depth investigations were conducted to identify the 
causes of these accidents and appropriate actions to minimise the possibility of such accidents being repeated.
Furthermore, a serious road accident occurred during transport of people involving a subcontractor vehicle with 12 passengers on-board. The accident occurred near an 
operating site in Saudi Arabia and caused the death of 4 people and injuries to others. It was assessed that none of the passengers who wore their seat belt were injured.
While not diminishing the importance and unacceptability of such events, the Group’s main safety indicators (TRI - Total Recordable Incidents and LTI - Lost Time 
Injury) showed a positive trend. TRI Frequency Rate (TRIFR) and LTI Frequency Rate (LTIFR) decreased by 14% and 7% compared to 2017.
SAFETY FOR OUR ASSETS
Safe operations require safe tools and a safe working  To evaluate asset integrity performance against stated goals, 
technique. The role of asset integrity management becomes  monitoring and reporting are key factors. For this reason a 
more and more crucial based on the evolution of the energy  set of common asset integrity KPIs were selected. In this 
industry: more challenging operations means being exposed  framework and with a specific focus on floaters operations, 
to complexities in even more hazardous and extreme  in 2019 the first report with the results of this activity in the 
conditions. Onshore division will be issued.
COMPETENCE AS A MAIN POINT 
Safety for our operations refers to the prevention 
FOR SAFE OPERATIONS
and control of events with low frequency and 
high/severe consequences to people, the 
environment, assets or project performance. The Competence Assurance & Assessment (CA&A) 
programme was launched at the Drilling projects in Saudi 
The risk of asset failures leading to Major Accident Events  Arabian Saipem (SAS) Ltd in 2016, and then extended to 
(MAE), with consequences on Saipem’s reputation and  offshore and onshore FPSO projects. The goal is to improve 
enterprise value, has to be managed, controlled and  any identified weakness, enhance personnel development 
minimised: the HSE Case helps because it is a process,  paths, as well as contribute to the development of the 
which identifies risks relevant to the activities carried out  competence of local personnel. In 2018, the campaign 
onboard and maps all key elements to ensure their control.  also involved all personnel working in onshore projects 
It is traditionally developed for the offshore production and  as scaffolding supervisors was performed to ensure their 
drilling units and in the last few years has been extended to  high level of competence. This campaign involved both 
the offshore construction fleet. Saipem and subcontractor personnel and was carried out in 
For the latter, a number of MAE scenarios are identified as  Kazakhstan, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Nigeria. 
credible escalations from initiating events that may occur  For example, the FPSO Cidade de Vitoria benefited from the 
during, for example, the installation of a platform or during  project for different reasons: the application of the technical 
pipe-laying operations. evaluations of the offshore group, the participation of CA&A 
The Saipem Offshore Construction Vessel Integrity  trained vessel management teams exposing their positive 
Management Model pursues the effective management of  experience and development, and for the performance 
Saipem assets, from the design of vessel upgrades and new  of competence assessments. This first phase identified 
equipment to operation and maintenance, throughout the  important development opportunities for office personnel, 
whole life cycle of the asset. The integrity model identifies  while the second phase was extended to personnel 
the safety case as the key process to analyse MAE scenarios  on-board the FPSO.
and to identify barriers that shall be put in place to prevent  Another initiative in this framework is the Barrier Ownership 
and control escalation to major events. Cards Programme, planned and arranged on Scarabeo 8 
In previous years, due to the dynamic nature of the offshore  to establish and highlight which tasks are safety critical and 
construction business, a new guideline to an ‘upgraded’  the relevant Barrier Functions (BF) to be implemented and 
version of the Vessel safety case (aligned with Asset Integrity  followed-up onboard. Therefore, the programme aimed to 
Best Practices released by OGP) was developed and  increase the awareness of each individual so as to clarify the 
launched. In 2018, the update of Saipem Vessel safety case  actions to prevent undesired incidents and/or minimise the 
continued, involving two additional vessels. Since Saipem  consequences of such incidents. The programme consisted 
fleet can be divided into clusters of vessels with similar  in sharing and providing a specific ‘Barrier ownership card’ 
features and MAE scenarios, a similar set of barriers (i.e.  for each person in charge of an action. The card contains all 
similar set of safety critical equipment, competences and  information and the actions needed to properly prevent and 
procedures) was identified and standard libraries of safety  respond to an emergency. Furthermore, a dedicated manual 
critical elements will be developed in 2019. This will ease and  was issued to keep focusing on this critical topic and on this 
speed up the compilation of new Vessel safety cases and  initiative.
ensure a consistent approach throughout the fleet.
35