SAFETY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT
10
Spills are among the most critical environmental aspects 
in our activities. We are strongly committed to improve   
‘prevention’ and ‘preparedness’. Prevention is by far the  Spill risk assessments on vessels (Saipem 7000, FDS, 
most important area to take into account. Starting from  FDS 2, Castoro 2, Castorone), rigs (Saipem 12000, TAD, 
the identification of the main situations in which a spill of  Scarabeo 9) and yards (Arbatax, Ambriz) performed 
pollutants may occur, this specific activity defines the entire  between 2017 and 2018
picture in order to avoid any release, from the smallest to the 
biggest event. In line with this belief, we started performing 
Spill Risk Assessments (SRA) for all our vessels, yards  In addition to the risk assessment, the Oil & Chemical 
and rigs. Through a rigorous and consistent method, the  Mapping also provides an actual map of the onsite presence 
assessments assigned a risk level for all equipment onboard  of oils and chemicals. The mapping process is carried out 
in order to evaluate wherever the risk is unacceptable and  both on our fleet and at offshore yards. In this way, the items 
to provide a priority order for the implementation of risk  identified are represented on a graphic layout of the site 
reduction measures. with a practical overview of the spill risk areas, where special 
The process consists of 3 different steps: attention is needed.
1) Mapping all the equipment capable of generating spills of 
30
oil or of other substances hazardous to the environment.
2) Assessing the risk through a qualitative evaluation 
of probability of release, and magnitude of the  Oil & chemical mapping performed 
consequences for the environment. between 2017 and 2018
3) Implementing prevention and mitigation measures (i.e. 
location of the item, quantity, pressure and eco-toxic 
information of the oil or chemical contained, number of  Competence and preparedness play a crucial role in case 
spill barriers, leakage in the past of similar items, expected  an unexpected event occurs. For this reason, each onshore 
spill response time). project is required to prepare an annual drill plan, containing 
at least one drill every three months, covering different spill 
For every item a list of information was collected: name of  scenarios (refuelling, chemical storage, use of hazardous 
the item, location, quantity of the oil or chemical, name and  materials, etc.).
type of the substance, pressure of the substance, subject to  To ensure that personnel involved in spill management is 
weather, subject to damage from impact, number of barriers,  properly trained, each project is requested to deliver spill 
leakage in the past, equipment present in the maintenance  prevention and response training to people involved in 
register, expected spill response time. activities at risk of spill.
Taking into account all the information, a spill risk 
496
assessment is performed. The output identifies any 
criticalities in one or more items on-board every vessel. 
The spill risk assessment will be used to better evaluate the  Spill drills performed in 2018
quantity and the location of the spill response equipment.
Between 2017 and 2018, Saipem completed the mapping  97%
for the entire offshore construction fleet and the offshore 
fabrication yards, except Malembo. Furthermore it performed 
Spill drills performed on planned
10 Oil spill risk assessments (6 in 2018) to start the 
implementation of risk reduction measures where applicable.
Spill number and volume
Year  Spill number  Spill volume (m3)
2016  30  4.3
2017  26  6.2
2018  18  7.2
The total number of spills was down in 2018 compared to the previous year. There were two major spills:
(cid:129) The main spill (3.97 m3) during unloading operations of FPSO Gimboa. The spill was due to a leak, because the tube was obstructed and folded. Activities were 
promptly interrupted and the contaminated area was treated with dispersing substances. Further tests on the tube were performed with positive results and the FPSO 
was supplied with new tubes for faster and preventive replacements.
(cid:129) The second was a bitumen spill (1.7 m3) caused by two tanks during lifting operations of the Tangguh LNG Project Expansion (Indonesia). The contaminated area was 
promptly isolated and barricaded by two containment tanks. Later, a recovery plan was implemented.
36