BEST PRACTICES 
under equipment, replacing oil  of work and risk evaluation. 
FROM ONSHORE PROJECTS
and refuelling activities using  SCNL personnel receive regular 
dip trays and conducting regular  instructions, training and suitable 
In the Tangguh Expansion Project,  inspections at the existing  equipment to face such incidents. 
the spill prevention and response  facilities. Each project has developed a list 
plan established will be able  •  Readiness strategy: providing  of possible spill occurrence areas, 
to protect the various existing  spill kits, delivering training  such as fuel storage and refuelling 
ecological resources, company  and conducting spill drills and  areas, condemned/waste oil 
facilities and to prevent any issues  exercises. storage areas, workshop areas, etc. 
within the community. Since the  Spill drills are carried out in SCNL 
83
spill events occurred in the project  in order to test the reaction and 
came from equipment failure and  response of the work team in case 
improper storage, a strategy was  Spill drills performed in 2018 of spills and to evaluate workforce 
developed: awareness.
•  Administration Strategy: 
21
identifying the spill risk from  SCNL in Nigeria took all reasonable 
construction activities. steps to prevent accidental release 
•  Spill prevention strategy:  of materials to the environment  Spill drills performed in 2018
promoting preventive  that could lead to a pollution 
maintenance, placing dip trays  incident by ensuring the planning 
APPLYING TECHNOLOGY FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
We have a very important tradition in the field of Oil Spill Response and we have been involved in different and 
significant experiences such as the deepwater oil recovery loss from the Prestige oil tanker in Spain in 2004.
The continuous development of innovative methodologies and solutions for ‘oil spill response preparedness’ has 
recently resulted in the acquisition of a major project (‘Subsea Well Response Project’ - SWRP) for a consortium of 
most of the major oil companies, aimed at developing solutions 
to respond quickly and efficiently to future subsea well-control 
incidents. In this respect, SWRP has built the Offset Installation 
Equipment (OIE), a novel tool designed to install a capping stack 
on a blowout well allowing to lay short-term remediation of 
environmental disasters like that of Deepwater Horizon platform. 
The system was tested in the Adriatic Sea, commissioned and 
delivered to the client and officially inaugurated in March 2018.
Discover the story of the OIE on the Google Arts & Culture platform.
 
Other innovative approaches are under development in the field 
of ‘oil spill monitoring & intervention’, such as the Early Warning 
Integrated System (EWIS) and a new concept of intervention tool 
for cleaning oil spills.
The EWIS will be an innovative data collection and decisional support platform for a very early and effective response to 
oil spills. It is well known that the best way to minimise environmental damage in the event of an incident is to take proper 
action in the shortest possible time. EWIS will collect, integrate and process data from different sources (satellite, aerial, 
radars, fixed observational structures, etc.) related to the detection, movement and degradation of oil slicks. All data will 
be processed and displayed in GIS configuration map screens ready for users to define the best oil recovery strategies.
37