2
INNOVATION
As my first year as Chairman draws to a close, I would like to take this 
opportunity to share my takeaways on Innovation. Over the last few 
months, I have had the privilege to get to know Saipem’s businesses 
through dialogue with Stefano and his management team and through 
visits to operations and colleagues both in Italy and abroad. It has been – 
and it is – an enriching journey through a variety of projects, technologies 
and markets. Three factors have impressed me for their constant 
presence across our Company’s projects: the passion and competence 
of our people; a strong, shared commitment to health and safety at 
all levels of the organisation; a relentless drive towards innovation to 
deliver high quality, sustainable solutions to our customers. People, 
technology and innovation are at the core of what we do, the DNA of 
who we are. It is through the dedication of our people and investments 
in innovation that we ensure an ever-growing level of safety in all our 
operations; it is through innovation and technology that we help our 
customers meet their objectives of sustainable growth: shorten time to 
market, enhance efficiency, respect the environment, reduce our carbon 
footprint. The world of energy is accelerating its transition towards a 
sustainable future and Saipem – as reflected in the 2019-2022 plan that 
the Board has approved – is determined to play a central role in working 
with its customers to lead this transition. It is in this context and with this 
strategic goal that Saipem will continue to invest in the development 
of innovative solutions in key technologies: from LNG to subsea 
robotics and engineering, from carbon capture to renewables such as 
offshore wind farms. Digitisation is playing and will continue to play a 
central role across all of our businesses, as the programme ‘Saipem 
run digital’, which was successfully launched in 2018, will continue to 
be deployed in all innovation and investments plans. Digital twins of 
our assets, predictive maintenance through AI, structured data and 
analytics to capture and share our knowledge and competence and 
speed up engineering and planning phases of our projects. However, it 
is the creative energy, competence and dedication of our people 
that will continue to make the difference in the market. Their drive to 
continuously improve existing processes and technologies, as well as 
their will and courage to think outside the box; an attitude that Saipem’s 
top management is encouraging and supporting through initiatives 
such as the Innovation Factory. The Innovation Factory is a place where 
colleagues from all our operations, divisions and functions, meet to put 
forward their innovation ideas, share their knowledge, learn from each 
other and select the innovation projects that will be the foundation of 
Saipem’s competitive advantage in the years to come. 
3
CLIMATE CHANGE
All the efforts on the development of new technological solutions are playing a relevant role in the energy transition 
phase, demonstrating how Saipem can also play an active role in terms of innovation to optimise the climate change 
effects of the energy industry, and to take new opportunities in the sector. We have planned to reduce our dependence 
on the fossil fuel business gradually by exploring fields that impact the climate less, investing in renewable 
technologies, and by developing more sustainable fossil fuel uses and diversifying activities. Furthermore, we are 
making significant efforts to improve the efficiency of our assets and operations to reduce GHG emissions. From a 
governance point of view, I am glad that the Board of Directors and Board Committees have been increasingly involved 
in the internal strategic discussion on climate-related issues and their implications on business strategy and plans.
I would like to highlight that 2018 marked a step further in our commitment. We have welcomed and followed 
the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures for effective disclosure of 
climate-related financial risks and opportunities. At the beginning of 2019, we published ‘Tackling Climate Change’, our 
first report on this topic that proves Saipem’s commitment to providing effective disclosure to our stakeholders on 
how we are equipped to run our business in the long term.
3