INNOVATION AS STRATEGIC COMPANY LEVERAGE
Innovation is one of the main pillars of Saipem’s strategic plan,  The ‘evolutionary’ innovation consists of all the technologies 
as it is an advantage for strengthening and consolidating  we use every day in our projects and that evolve with the 
the company’s competitive positioning for tackling future  industry (e.g. digitalisation) and our know-how aiming at 
challenges. Our innovation model is in fact a synthesis  reducing costs and time schedules of the Company’s projects.
between the urgency to implement concrete solutions in the  ‘Disruptive’ innovations are those that significantly alter 
short term, mostly driven by current commercial projects, and  the way business or entire industries operate; often times, 
the need to develop novel solutions reflecting the changing  these technologies force companies to alter the way they 
macro-scenarios, especially the energy scenario. approach their business. This aspect will drive Saipem 
This is true where the immediate and already ongoing  through the future.
objectives concern the reduction of costs and delivery times 
to market for Oil&Gas projects, the advancement of further 
exploitation of oil and natural gas resources, company 
DID YOU KNOW?
diversification, within, but not limited to, the energy industry, 
and environmental protection. As an example of a short-term result achieved through 
It applies to our direct operations and along our value chain. a technology innovation, the recently developed 
Looking towards the mid-long term, our main challenges  Internal Plasma Welding technology for carbon steel 
are to develop innovative solutions aimed at guaranteeing  and clad sealines has been a key factor for the award 
full exploitation of Oil&Gas resources in future decades and  of the Barzan project in Qatar. New and even faster 
contributing to an overall decarbonisation of the sector. welding and field joint coating techniques, as well as 
In addition, digitalisation is an option that we are adopting  exotic and composite materials are under development 
extensively to increase productivity and increase new value  to better withstand corrosion, fatigue, high pressure 
propositions. and high temperature applications.
Digitalisation is the implementation and integration  In the medium-long term, among other things we are 
of digital technologies, connectivity and  devoted to developing the field of Circular economy: 
intelligence in a wide range of devices and work  the exploitation of innovative technological solutions 
processes enabling collection and analysis of data in  to treat waste sustainably or residual/opportunity 
near-real time to improve performance.  feedstock from the Oil&Gas and other industries will 
Fast tracking digital technologies represent a fundamental  become an important asset. Worth mentioning the 
tool to transform what we do now and the way our industry  License Agreement signed with ITEA (Sofinter Group 
will do things in the future, by enhancing productivity,  company) to produce, through ITEA’s proprietary 
lowering costs and expanding our proposals to clients. Isotherm Pwr® ‘Flameless’ Oxy-Combustion 
Technology, steam, electricity and pure CO  by flexible 
2
use of low ranking fuels such as waste, heavy oils, pet 
coke and several other feedstock. The agreement will 
Saipem’s approach to technology and  give Saipem access to the technology for Oil&Gas 
applications, allowing to offer original and circular 
innovation can be seen in a dualistic 
sustainable solutions to the clients.
dimension: the first is ‘evolutionary’ and the 
second is ‘disruptive’.  Continue reading about circular economy at page 42.
 
DID YOU KNOW?
Specific digital programmes are under development across our divisions:
•  The Offshore Drilling and Onshore Drilling divisions are mostly concentrated in the field of digitalisation of operations; 
in collaboration with an Oil&Gas major, new approaches based on virtual and augmented reality were launched for 
Maintenance & Asset Management (in this respect, a digital twin has been developed for drilling vessels).
•  XSIGHT division, in addition to the full development of XDIMTM (see below), is investigating solutions for Industrial 
Analytics to provide decision making support to owners of operating plants, allowing for better planning of 
productivity and maintenance optimisation with cost reduction and reducing unforeseen plant and equipment 
shutdowns which can be turned into shorter and fewer plant stops.
•  The Offshore EPC division’s activities are aimed mostly at developing Vessel and Subsea Digital Twins, developing 
a data ‘lake’ to support business activities and methods for planning, implementation and management of Offshore 
Plants.
•  Finally, for the Onshore EPC division digitalisation is one of the main pillars of a complex Transformation process, 
aimed at significantly improving its work processes.
40