A conversation with… 
Mario Marchionna, Corporate Head of Technology Innovation
Mario, could you name two examples of innovations in your products over the last year that were the most beneficial 
to the future of our business?
As a first example, we are developing a new platform of subsea remote controlled, resident and Autonomous 
Underwater Vehicles (AUV) called ‘Hydrone’, allowing Saipem to enter the life of field business. Saipem and Shell 
recently signed an agreement for the industrial production and commercialisation of the ‘FlatFish’, an AUV dedicated 
to the inspection of subsea structures and pipelines. The Hydrone platform 
will then take advantage of some of the technologies already developed on 
the FlatFish prototype, in particular for the ‘Hydrone-S’ vehicle, the ‘resident 
AUV’ member of the family. The use of resident drones for subsea field 
inspection, monitoring and maintenance takes on even greater importance.
A second example, a new digital collaborative and data-centric 
methodology for the whole project life-cycle management (xD Information 
Model, ‘xDIM™’) has been conceived. The development of the platform is 
underway and an initial pilot project was completed; once totally developed, 
xDIM™ will revolutionise the way Saipem will realise its projects.
  To read the complete interview click here
 
AN ATTITUDE FOR INNOVATING TOGETHER
low-carbon markets (i.e. offshore wind farms, biofuels, 
Our own resources are decisive but not sufficient as  concentrated solar power, geothermal). In 2017, we 
innovating requires collaboration within and outside the  successfully installed the first floating Wind Farm in 
Oil&Gas industry to be receptive to crossover technologies  the world, the Hywind Scotland Project that required 
from aerospace and defence, automotive, IT, telecom and  an innovative solution to lift, handle and install the wind 
biomedical, etc. turbine generators on floating spars anchored to the 
Within this general framework, Saipem has always displayed  seabed. Several new solutions in the Offshore Floating 
a collaborative attitude, leveraging a broad network of  Wind segment are currently under development.
technology suppliers, universities, research centres, university  •  Creating access to new renewable and low-carbon 
spin-offs, start-ups, commercial partners, as shown by the  markets. We also invest in emerging technologies such 
number of collaborations and Joint Industry Projects (JIPs),  as advanced wind farms, emerging marine technologies, 
activated in recent years. Among them, most notably is the  energy storage and the potential use of hydrogen as a 
5-year collaboration agreement signed with the ‘Politecnico di  clean energy carrier produced by water with renewable 
Milano’ that includes the creation of a Joint Research Centre. energy.
•  Reinforce our presence in non-energy related markets 
An example comes from the subsea Oil&Gas market. Subsea  such as infrastructures for sustainable mobility, water 
processing, in fact, will contribute to reducing costs by moving  pipelines, and environmental services.
most of surface operations and equipment to the seabed. 
Moss 60 ECO - MW, 
Significant results have been achieved in terms of a full-scale 
first semi-submersible drilling rig 
subsea factory, heading to the Subsea-to-Shore solution:
with Hybrid power system
•  In the short term, we are carrying out the industrialisation 
of the SPRINGSTM (Subsea PRocess and INjection Gear for 
Seawater) subsea water treatment technology as a result  Moss Maritime, a subsidiary of Saipem, has secured a 
of the collaboration with industrial partners such as Total,  contract to build the CS60 ECO - MW, the first new build 
Veolia and also Siemens for Subsea Control Systems. semi-submersible drilling rig with Hybrid power system.
•  In the long term, we are developing, together with major oil  With the CS60 ECO design we see the start of a new era with 
companies, the proprietary Spoolsep technology for the  regard to drilling rig 
gravity separation of produced water from oil; furthermore,  design and operation. 
we are collaborating with Petrobras on its Dense Phase  Since the last wave 
CO  Separation Hi-SepTM technology. of new build orders 
2
for drilling rigs, new 
All these innovations lead us to extend our collaboration  technologies have 
perimeter and change our traditional attitude by changing  matured combining 
the business model and involving several partners to unlock  traditional diesel-
the supply chain. electric power 
generation with Energy 
DIVERSIFY TO INNOVATE
Storage Systems (ESS) 
of various types.
Regarding diversification outside the Oil&Gas market, the  In this hybrid power 
main efforts are devoted to the following: system batteries 
•  Strengthening market penetration in already existing  are integrated in the 
41