11,000
 OUR COMPETENCIES FOR CIRCULARITY 
more than 
Tonnes jacket removed
For Saipem ‘to innovate’ also means to renew itself, to 
enhance competencies within different industries and  97%
to create value while contributing to the circularity of the 
business.
Target of recycling materials
In this framework decommissioning, dismantling oil plants 
and infrastructure in a sustainable way, is one example.  Watch the video ‘Saipem 7000 - The decommissioning campaign of 
  
Two stories come from the Mediterranean Sea and the  the Miller platform’ here
North Sea.
Between 2014 and 2017 Saipem, together with San 
Saipem 7000 was the protagonist of the  Giorgio del Porto, succeeded in one of the most important 
decommissioning campaign of the Miller platform in the  green ship recycling projects in Europe: the dismantling of 
North Sea, whose final phase was executed between  the Costa Concordia. The ship recycling plan was divided 
January 2017 and July 2018. Twelve topside modules and  into four phases: wreck delivery and lightening, transfer 
the jacket were removed and transported to a disposal  and dismantling, activities for the removal of ‘sponsons’, 
yard by the S7000 heavy lift vessel. final dismantling.
28,000 86%
about 
Tonnes topsides removed Recycled materials
power system for peak shaving and ‘spinning reserve’.  fuel consumption, emissions and maintenance reduction. 
Additionally, new technology makes it possible to store and  The ‘ECO’ branding also means that other features were 
use regenerated power from the derrick hoisting systems,  implemented in the design to reduce the environmental 
either as capacitors (super-caps/ultra-caps), fly-wheel  footprint, such as waste heat recovery, exhaust gas 
systems, batteries and pressure vessels. By implementing  cleaning (Tier III), ballast water treatment, slop water 
this technology it is possible to reduce power demand from  treatment.
the drilling systems significantly.
The implementation of ESS in the power generation  Further information on our comprehensive efforts can be found 
  
facilitates, together with closed bus-tie operation, significant  in the ‘Research and development’ section of the Saipem Annual 
reduction of number of generators running, more efficiency,  Report 2018.
INNOVATION INITIATIVES 
In recent years, it has been decided  the wind market, in particular the 
to reward process innovations, also in  floating offshore wind sector, in 
Innovation Trophy line with the new innovation strategy. very challenging environments with 
Since 2003, with the institution  Since 2015, a new special  medium-deep seabeds.
of the Innovation Trophy, Saipem  award has also been introduced 
342
has sought to reward employees  for technology innovation to 
who bring their innovative spirit,  acknowledge the sustainability 
advantages and concrete results  value of our operations. Projects submitted since 2003
to the company. Since its inception  In 2018, the sustainability award 
 100
(having now reached the 14th edition),  went to Stability Frame For 
more than
attention has been mostly directed  Fully Assembled Wind Turbine 
towards technology development  Generator Installation, a stability  Innovation Trophy participants 
and a few employees have laid out  frame system for the installation of  since 2003
Saipem’s most important successes  high-performance offshore wind   
in the recent past. generators, allowing us to enter 
42