BUSINESS ETHICS AS THE ONLY ACCEPTABLE OPTION
Saipem undertakes to maintain and strengthen its corporate  Act and Italian Legislative Decree No. 231 of June 8, 2001). 
governance system in line with international best practice  Subsequently, Saipem updated this Compliance Programme 
standards that can withstand both the complex situations  by approving the ‘Anti-Corruption’ Management System 
in which Saipem operates and the challenges it faces for  Guideline (MSG), with the objective of prohibiting any form of 
sustainable development. It is the duty of all Saipem people  active or passive bribery involving not only Public Officials 
to comply with laws, regulations, statutory provisions,  but also private parties.
and self-regulatory codes and to embody ethical integrity  As part of the continuous improvement of the Anti-Corruption 
and fairness. The company strives with alacrity and  Compliance Programme, the ‘Anti-Corruption’ MSG, which 
determination to ensure that these principles and values  must be fully applied and complied with, was updated in 
characterise the conduct of the entire organisation. June 2015 on the basis of experience gained by Saipem over 
the years and the need to represent an increasingly clear 
FIGHTING CORRUPTION
framework of reference to identify areas at risk of corruption, 
the tools the Company makes available to Saipem personnel 
As a multinational organisation, that conducts business in  and the rules of conduct with which Saipem personnel 
over 60 countries and jurisdictions around the world, Saipem  must comply in order to prevent and combat this risk. 
and its personnel are subject to the laws of these countries,  The ‘Anti-Corruption’ MSG provides a systematic framework 
including any law that ratifies international conventions, and  for the long-established Anti-Corruption Regulations that 
prohibits the corruption of Public Officials and private parties.  Saipem has designed and implemented over time and is 
Furthermore, since Saipem SpA has its headquarters in Italy,  reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors of Saipem 
both the Company and its personnel are subject to Italian  SpA. Its adoption and enforcement is mandatory for Saipem 
law and, in particular, to the provisions of Legislative Decree  SpA and all its subsidiaries.
No. 231/2001 and subsequent amendments. This Decree  Furthermore in 2018, Saipem was among the first Italian 
regulates the administrative liability of legal entities deriving  companies to achieve the international certificate ISO 
from offences, such as internal and international bribery,  37001:2016 ‘Anti-corruption management systems’. 
committed by their directors, employees or associates, in  This certification, awarded by an independent accredited 
Italy or abroad, in the interest or to the advantage of said  body, identifies a management standard that helps 
legal entities. Model 231 is an instrument aimed at preventing  organisations in the fight against corruption, establishing a 
the offences specified by Legislative Decree No. 231/2001,  culture of integrity, transparency and compliance.
adopted for the first time in 2004. The latest update of Model  The certification process, which included an audit phase that 
231 was approved by the Board of Directors on January  began in January 2018 and ended in April 2018, took into 
15, 2018 following a general review of Model 231 and a risk  consideration such factors as the organisational structure, 
assessment of all crimes contemplated under Legislative  local presence, processes and services.
Decree No. 231/2001 launched by the CEO on July 28, 2016. 
The aim of the activity was to align the Model 231 to the latest  “
updates of the legislative framework and best practices and  ‘Loyalty, fairness, transparency, efficiency, openness to 
to the relevant organisational changes which occurred, also  the market and respect for human rights are the guiding 
taking into account that in 2016 Saipem SpA ceased to be  principles of our Code of Ethics. This certification 
under the control and co-ordination of Eni SpA. represents a fundamental step to make our integrated 
As an official member of the UN Global Compact from whose  management system even more efficient’.
Ten Principles it draws inspiration, Saipem’s commitment  Stefano Cao, Saipem CEO
also falls within its adherence to the 10th principle, which  ‘In Saipem we found a solid and extensive 
concerns the fight against corruption. anti-corruption management system based on 
In accordance with the principle of ‘zero tolerance’ for  documented regulations with numerous process 
corruption expressed in the Code of Ethics, Saipem  descriptions in which the anti-corruption safeguards 
implemented the Anti-Corruption Compliance Programme  are included in appropriate phases, where there is 
to face other risks head-on which may be encountered by  widespread knowledge of the corruptive risks in each 
the Company in its business activities. The programme  role and of the prevention measures that must be 
is a detailed system of rules and controls to prevent  adopted and a systematic application of procedures’.
“
corruption-related crimes, characterised by its dynamism  Alessandro Gerlotti 
and constant attention to evolving national and international  (Regional Sales Manager, DNV GL-Business Assurance)
legislation and best practices.
Saipem’s Compliance Programme was introduced in 
DISSEMINATE A CULTURE OF BUSINESS INTEGRITY 
accordance with applicable anti-corruption provisions in 
IN NIGERIA
force and with international conventions (including the United 
Nations Convention Against Corruption, the Organisation 
for Economic Cooperation and Development Convention on  Saipem has been working to disseminate a culture of 
Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International  business ethics and integrity in Nigeria with the launch in 
Business Transactions, the US Foreign Corrupt Practices  2017 of the Leading by Ethics Campaign. This initiative 
46