WHISTLEBLOWING
All Saipem employees and stakeholders must report any violations (or alleged violations) of the OM&C Model. Saipem has a 
Corporate standard that describes the process of managing reports. The term ‘report’ refers to any information regarding 
possible violations, behaviours and practices not in line with the Code of Ethics and/or which may cause damage or injury to 
Saipem SpA (even if only to its image) or any of its subsidiaries.
Whistleblowers are guaranteed protection from any form, direct or indirect, of retaliation, discrimination or penalisation, for 
reasons connected directly or indirectly to the report, without prejudice to the legal obligations and the protection of the 
rights of the Company or of the people accused owing to wilful misconduct or gross negligence.
Saipem has prepared various channels of communication in order to facilitate sending reports, including, but not necessarily limited 
to, regular post, fax numbers, e-mail, yellow box and communication tools on the Intranet/Internet sites of Saipem SpA and its 
subsidiaries. The Internal Audit function ensures that appropriate controls are carried out for facts that have been reported.
  2016  2017  2018
Number of files*, of which:  125  118  120
- founded or partially founded  31  24  17
- unfounded  98  92  64
- open  -  2  39
(*) The data for the three-year period was updated as of December 31, 2018.
initially addressed 200 Saipem employees and was then  into contracts with third parties on Saipem’s behalf) 
extended, together with the UN Global Compact, to involve  working in the countries where Saipem operates;
50 local Saipem vendors and local NGOs. As part of this  •  two e-learning modules respectively on the OM&C Model 
campaign, attendees participated in the Leading by Ethics  and on the Anti-Corruption Compliance Programme;
Training and watched the Leading by Ethics Movie. •  an e-learning module for blue collar and white collar 
In the framework of the Saipem Innovation Trophy, the  workers who do not have at-risk positions on Code of 
initiative received a special award for the innovative  Ethics, OM&C Model 231 and Anti-Corruption Programme;
communication method, which enables improved  •  a specific e-learning module on the ‘Internal Control 
internalisation of the culture of Ethics and Business Integrity,  System over Corporate Reporting’ delivered to Saipem 
including through the use of different innovative supports. personnel in Italy and abroad.
To watch the Leading by Ethics Movie click here In the framework of the OM&C Model, Code of Ethics and 
Anti-Corruption training, Saipem organised numerous 
BUSINESS ETHICS TRAINING PROGRAMMES
training sessions in 2018.
4,318
Saipem personnel are regularly informed of and trained in 
the Company’s Compliance and Governance systems, as 
well as in the importance of compliance with legislation  Employees trained
and related procedures, so that they clearly understand 
the different duties, crimes, risks, the relevant personal 
and corporate responsibilities, and how to recognise which 
actions to implement in order to avoid committing any 
violations.
Given the criticality of these issues, a training matrix on 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Compliance and Governance topics was defined and is 
constantly updated. In particular, it takes legal requirements  The integration of an advanced Corporate Governance 
and Company standards into consideration, as well as the  system with a structured risk management system is 
jobs and responsibilities of the resources to whom the  a cornerstone for the management of a sustainable 
training is addressed. business. Integrity and transparency are the principles 
With the goal of consolidating everyone’s knowledge and  that inspire Saipem in defining its Corporate Governance 
awareness of Compliance and Governance and providing  system, a founding element of the Company’s 
greater clarity and consistency as regards the numerous  business model. Saipem’s organisational structure is 
training initiatives launched over the last few years, the  characterised by the presence of a Board of Directors 
matrix is a comprehensive tool for planning, executing  (BoD), a pivotal body in the governance system, to which 
and monitoring Compliance and Governance training.  management of the Company is exclusively entrusted. 
Participation in mandatory training programmes is a  The Board of Statutory Auditors has supervisory 
contractual obligation for Saipem personnel. functions, whereas external auditors are in charge of the 
The training matrix on Compliance and Governance topics  legal auditing of accounts. 3 committees with advisory 
is not a static tool. Rather, even after it being issued, its  and consulting functions have been set up within the 
updating and development will continue with the design  BoD: the Audit and Risk Committee, the Compensation 
phase (where necessary) and the delivery of training  and Nomination Committee and the Governance 
initiatives to offer a vast, uniform and systematic training  Committee and Scenarios.
catalogue (including both classroom and e-learning courses). 
Within the framework of the matrix, Anti-Corruption themes  Information on the Internal Control and Risk Management System 
  
play a central role by offering: can be found in the Corporate Governance and Shareholding 
•  specific training sessions for at-risk personnel (employees  Structure Report 2018
who have contact with public officials or who may enter 
47