protecting and promoting human 
and labour rights
“ Global Petroprojects Services (GPS AG) is a subsidiary of 
Respect for Human Rights is a fundamental value  the Saipem Group, established in Switzerland in 1964. It is 
of Saipem which considers them to be inalienable,  licensed for international recruitment and manpower supply 
essential and the basis for establishing a society  since 1994 and as Seafarer’s Recruitment and Placement 
founded on the principles of equality, solidarity,  Services agent in compliance with the ILO MLC 2006 since 
repudiation of war, the protection of civil, political, social,  2013.
economic and cultural rights and the acknowledgement  GPS AG is indeed a human resources centre of excellence, 
of so-called third generation rights (the right of  which provides a complex spectrum of HR related 
self-determination, the right to peace, the right to  services to Saipem worldwide, in addition to several 
development and protection of the environment).  other auxiliary services (monitoring of training needs 
Saipem operates within the reference framework of the  and training arrangements, data inputting, the support 
United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights,  for bid estimations, etc.). It operates combining business 
the Fundamental Conventions of the ILO – International  peculiarities with the evolution of the market.
Labour Organization – and the OECD Guidelines on  For certain complex contexts, GPS AG is supported by local 
“
Multinational Enterprises. agencies to satisfy legal obligations connected mainly with 
domestic legislation. In the framework of its human and 
Saipem Human Rights Policy
labour rights commitment, Saipem has a rigorous process 
in place for selecting workforce suppliers and a structured 
Saipem’s commitment to respecting and promoting  engagement to promote fruitful cooperation. GPS AG 
internationally recognised human rights encompasses  constantly monitors, directly and indirectly, how employment 
different spheres of our business: our people, our supply  agencies manage recruitment and administration practices 
chain, the local communities in which we operate, and all  either through audits during the validation of a purchase 
security aspects. Proof of this dedication is our acceptance  document and/or assessments prior to the service 
into Global Compact since 2016 and the ongoing and  provisions at the vendor’s premises or by phone interviews 
transparent dialogue and engagement on human and labour  with international personnel to get their own perceptions. 
rights topics with all our stakeholders. Said feedback collected during phone conversations 
An example of initiatives addressed to Saipem people is the  in English can confirm that employment agencies meet 
comprehensive training on human and labour rights (HLR)  Saipem’s requirements.
delivered to Managing Directors, Branch Managers, Human  In 2018, GPS AG launched a customised eLearning course 
and Industrial Relations Managers operating worldwide. for international workers to assess their perception of topics 
Started in 2017, the programme was expanded in 2018  such as fighting corruption, social responsibility, integrity, 
covering 85% of the identified resources. The training  ethical supply chain, health and safety, etc. Of course, this 
covered aspects related to international regulations  is just one among a variety of tools to assess – for instance 
protecting human rights, as well as possible risks related to  – if manpower agencies do not require payment of any 
the kind of activities in which Saipem engages. Moreover,  placement fees or other compensation to access Saipem 
in addition to offering a detailed review of Saipem’s policies  employment proposals.
and regulations with reference to HLR, the training also  Finally, GPS AG’s aim is to maintain a stable channel of 
focused on the awareness of the degree in which the rights  communications with Subcontractors and International 
protected under the ILO core conventions were reflected in  Employees to promote more and more the adoption of good 
the legislation of the countries where we operate. practices in the area of overseas recruitment and enforce a 
fair and transparent recruitment process.
113
2018 GPS activities in figures
Managing Directors, Branch Managers, Human 
280
and Industrial Relations Managers reached by 
more than 
the human and labour rights training programme in 2018
Tracked contact with international personnel
226
1,330
more than 
Training hours delivered in 2018
Man-hours spent in enhancing a transparent recruitment 
140
process worldwide
more than 
1,430
Managers trained since 2017
more than 
A specific example of the company’s commitment to  Man-hours spent to satisfy legal obligations for 
guaranteeing and promoting human and labour rights also for  accrediting sites and/or vessels and/or agencies 
people working for us and with us comes from Switzerland. with local Public Authorities
48