With regard to human rights and taking into consideration  clauses on human rights have been included in the ‘General 
regulations and their evolution, the specificity of business  terms and conditions’ of contracts.
areas of the international contexts in which we operate and  For new projects in which Saipem is responsible for security, 
of employed technologies, efforts to ensure the security of  we carry out a Security Risk Assessment on the country 
people (and company asset) are among top priorities and  in question before initiating a tender process. If Saipem 
guarantee a secure environment for operations and people  decides to go ahead with issuing a call for bids, we prepare 
living near them. the Project Security Execution Plan in which the security 
risk connected with the operating activities and the context 
Company Security is defined as the activity, in line  is analysed, including human rights violation issues. 
with UNI 10459-2015, aimed at preventing,  The actions required to manage and reduce these to a 
managing and overcoming events that may occur  minimum are decided based on the risks identified.
following illegal actions and that expose company  In 2014, we launched an internal awareness training 
personnel and assets (tangible and intangible) to potential  programme called HOPE (Human OPerational Environment), 
harmful and/or damaging effects.  specifically targeted at managers working at the operative 
level at sites and projects in the Operations, Human 
In the management of security activities, Saipem gives  Resources, HSE, Security and Community Relations 
utmost importance to respecting human rights. As stated  functions. The programme is aimed at helping the functions 
in the Security Management System Guideline, security  identify appropriate managerial and behavioural solutions in 
activities are conducted in compliance with the Universal  managing all human rights issues that may arise during their 
Declaration of Human Rights, relevant national and  day-to-day activities. Therefore, it is specifically focused on 
international regulations and Voluntary Principles on  each local context, analysing the social, ethical and cultural 
Security and Human Rights. The respect of human dignity  context of the area of operations, and it is designed to be an 
is a fundamental value that cannot be violated in any way.  interactive guide to the process of decision making in case 
All security personnel protecting Saipem employees and  of conflicts.
installations shall respect these principles.
244
We are committed to adopting preventive measures aimed 
at minimising the need for response by public/private 
security forces in the case of any threats to the safety of our  Saipem people dedicated to Security activities
people and the integrity of our assets. We manage relations 
94%
with local security forces in order to ensure a shared 
commitment to human rights, as well as the adoption of rules 
of engagement that limit the use of force. Before signing  Of bids covered by Security aspects
a contract, vendors of security goods and services are 
subjected to due diligence to verify that there are no 
counter-indications connected with the violation of human  Due to the global evolution of the Cyber threat, a technical/
rights. organisational action plan was defined. The action plan 
Since 2010, we have introduced clauses regarding the  includes, for example, the establishment of a unit dedicated 
respect for human rights in our contracts with these vendors,  to the management of Cyber Security, and it is aimed at 
and failure to observe them leads to the withdrawal of the  strengthening IT security safeguards within Saipem Group.
Company from the contract. As of today, the contractual 
Security and Health Pre-Travel Induction
Security and health of personnel that travel for business reasons on missions or assignments abroad, is ensured through 
the provision of information on security and health issues for countries of their destination, as well as through logistical 
and administrative support.
These provisions, commensurate to the country threat level or specific local situations may include travel guidance, meet 
and greet when personnel arrive in the country; selection of hotels with adequate security standards; rules of behaviour 
and precautions; communication systems; secure and defensive driving rules (with or without driver); employment of 
escort personnel; use of armoured vehicles.
The Health Country Presentation shall provide information on: management of prophylactic vaccines; water and food 
hygiene; malaria management and prevention of animal bites and stings; prevention of sexually transmitted diseases; 
prevention of climate risks; attention to/respect for culture of the countries of destination and emergency management 
medical repatriation.
49