Vendors: partners in the chain 
for a sustainable business
Saipem conducts its business availing itself of the collaboration  Saipem’s anti-corruption guidelines. Depending on the vendor’s 
and cooperation of qualified vendors with which long lasting  criticality and on the specific commodity code, the qualification 
relationships and cooperation have been established over  process may also require an audit visit, which consists of an 
the years. Strengthened by the Saipem Ethical Supply Chain  on-site verification of the vendor activities. Vendors operating in 
Management System, the Company believes that only through  high-risk countries with regard to Human Rights may be subject 
business relationships with vendors, founded on reciprocal  to an assessment visit also regarding labour rights aspects. 
trust and honourable behaviour, it is possible to achieve  The scope of the audit focuses on child and forced labour, 
success in every business project. freedom of association and on the right to collective bargaining, 
remuneration, working hours, discrimination, disciplinary 
While providing equal business opportunities, Saipem  practices, and health and safety. The  results of the audits carried 
selects suppliers and subcontractors based on the policy  out in 2018 on those topics showed no major criticalities, while 
of open competition. The Vendor Management System  some non-conformities were found during the assessments 
identifies priority sustainable topics for the supply chain:  performed for vendors operating in the Manpower Services field: 
the ethical behaviour of the vendors, their respect of Human  one of them was in the end blocked in the vendor management 
and Labour Rights, the Health and Safety protection of their  system as a consequence of the non-conformity found.
employees and the environmental protection.
170
All those sustainable aspects are integrated in the Vendor 
more than 
Management System in three different interrelated phases, 
which can be summarised as follows: Vendor qualification questionnaires 
1. Vendor qualification; on labour rights analysed in 2018
2. Purchase Document preparation and award;
1,400
3. Vendor performance monitoring and feedback.
more than 
23,000
Vendor qualification questionnaires 
more than 
on labour rights analysed since 2013
Qualified vendors
10
7,000
more than 
Vendor qualification audits on labour rights in 2018
Gained a qualification in one or more than one 
commodity code in 2018
STRENGTHENING THE HSE COMPETENCE 
5,000 OF OUR SUBCONTRACTORS
Vendors with which Saipem has successfully  Safety wise, being proactive means implementing all the 
and continuously collaborated for 10 years safety measures, initiatives and activities that prevent 
incidents to employees and any direct subcontractors. 
Saipem pushed this definition of proactivity to a further 
Vendors are selected based on a structured vendor  level, involving all business partners in creating awareness 
qualification process that analyses their reliability from  and sharing the best practices and lessons learned in HSE. 
technical, financial, quality, HSE, managerial point of view  A selection of these initiatives is reported below.
and from an ethical and sustainable point of view. Vendors  Aware of the criticalities occurred during pipe handling 
belonging to countries classified as critical from the Human  operations over the past years, Saipem developed the 
and Labour Rights point of view, are assessed on the basis  Safe Pipe Handling Campaign. The initiative is addressed 
of information and documents provided on issues such  to suppliers and to anyone else involved in pipe handling 
as child and forced labour, freedom of association and the  operations, conscious of the fact that the sharing of the best 
right to collective bargaining, remuneration, discrimination,  practices, know-how and lessons learnt raises alertness and 
disciplinary practices and working hours. Similarly, for  maintains the required due diligence and proper involvement 
commodity codes with high HSE risk, an ad hoc assessment  of all line management and workforce during such hazardous 
is carried out to analyse the vendor HSE management system  pipe and material handling activities. In August 2018, for the 
and its ability to manage these aspects. Barzan Pipeline Project (Qatar), Saipem organised workshops 
In the case of specific critical commodity codes, the assessment  for 4 supplier representatives to share lessons learned and 
carries out a further deep counter-party evaluation that  best practices in Pipe-handling operations, in line with the 
analyses aspects relevant to operating and financial data and  Saipem Project LSR Programme and with the Project Health 
organisational aspects. A detailed check is also implemented on  and Safety Vision. Afterwards, all suppliers’ employees were 
the ownership structures and any possible presence of politically  then involved in the campaign through dedicated cascading 
exposed persons and/or members of the Company with alleged  meetings and through toolbox talks at the job sites. To ensure 
involvement directly/indirectly in any offence, in compliance with  proper roll out of the campaign, they had to provide feedback 
50