and complete a questionnaire, allowing for an evaluation of  the actions to be addressed; a special session was dedicated 
the level of safety awareness and the impact on pipe handling  also to the issues relevant to ethical procurement and 
performance throughout the project life cycle. Saipem Ethical Policy in relation with Saipem stakeholders.
Aware that positive safety performance can be achieved  For the Liza Project, Saipem Guyana Branch launched 
through a joint effort, in the framework of the Zhor  the Safety Leadership Forum addressed to local 
Optimised Ramp-Up project, Saipem involved its  subcontractors, granting the sharing of the We Want Zero 
subcontractors and vendors in the following HSE initiatives: principles and values and promoting safety initiatives and 
•  The HSE Engagement Workshop - We Want Zero fatal  campaigns for the entire duration of the project.
accidents was organised to share the main project 
70
criticalities and develop an action programme with a series 
more than 
of HSE initiatives to be implemented.  
•  The Leadership in Health and Safety - Leading  Participants from more than 30 companies
Behaviours programme focused on the implementation 
of six tool box talks each one of them corresponding to a 
Commitment to guarantee decent work 
Leading Behaviour (Start, Recognise, Intervene, Challenge, 
along the supply chain
Change, final).
•  The Tool Box Talk Goes Live, a communication initiative 
that reproduces a real yard activity situation through HSE  Continuing in the vein of the training programme for Saipem 
incident re-enactment, and if necessary, the intervention  employees carried out on Human Rights and the supply 
on an injured person. chain (2016-2017), in 2018 Saipem further disseminated the 
•  Theoretical and practical training sessions were organised  initiative with an e-learning campaign to reach the entire 
to increase safety and environmental awareness on topics  population of the Post Order Function in all working sites 
such as Lifting operations, Scaffolding, Spill prevention  worldwide.
and response, etc. After an introduction on human and labour rights aspects 
(discrimination, forced/compulsory labour, child labour, 
Cooperation and engagement in HSE-related issues contribute  remuneration, working hours, disciplinary practices, freedom 
to fostering the win-win strategy Saipem has established with  of association/collective bargaining and protection of health 
its subcontractors. Over the past few years, HSE forums have  and safety), the e-learning training aims to instruct the 
been delivered to subcontractors in different countries to help  employees, who have a direct interaction with suppliers, on 
improve their knowledge and awareness in the field. the importance of reporting serious situations that may be 
It is in this framework that Saipem organised its events in  noticed while visiting vendor sites.
Saudi Arabia, Nigeria and Guyana.
237
In Saudi Arabia, the HSE Forum for subcontractors took 
place in Dammam also in 2018, enforcing the development 
plan in technical skills and competences. The Forum was  Participants
attended by the CEOs of all Saipem legal entities operating 
28
in onshore businesses in the country, together with the 
representatives of the most important construction 
companies operating in the field. Countries involved
In Nigeria, Saipem Contracting Nigeria Ltd (SCNL) hosted 
500 
the 9th edition of the HSE Subcontractor Forum, with the 
about 
objective to share relevant HSE information with vendors 
and subcontractors, to discuss the annual SCNL HSE  Employees trained since 2016
performance results, to highlight areas of HSE concerns and 
THE QATAR SAFE HANDLING  THE HSE COMMITMENT OF 
CAMPAIGN IN A NUTSHELL ZOHR PROJECT IN A NUTSHELL
46
6   TOOLBOX TALKS
WORKSHOPS ORGANISED 3,500
MORE THAN   ATTENDEES
47
 SUPPLIERS INVOLVED 200
MORE THAN   WORKERS TRAINED
800
MORE THAN   TRAINING HOURS
51