Attraction, development and retention 
to make our people the key asset
In a challenging and competitive industry, where professionalism,  initiatives of a different nature, focusing on: a) operational 
reliability and expertise are the benchmark for our operations,  projects to show which projects the company is carrying out 
the attraction, development and retention of people represents  all over the world; b) the latest development in information 
key levers in our business strategy. Learning programmes are  technology to disseminate technological awareness and 
promoted to ensure the development of professional know- prepare the company for the digital transformation.
how and behavioural skills for all our people, guaranteeing equal 
8
growth opportunities for all on the basis of merit and without 
discrimination. On the other hand, we want to be forefront to 
attract future and experienced talents with special attention to  Deep In Saipem initiatives
students or undergraduates close to the labour market.
 400
Since its announcement in 2015, the Saipem Leadership 
more than
Model has become the basis of all human resources 
processes. The Model is inspired by six principles/pillars –  Employees involved
People, Vision, Communication, Decision making, Knowledge, 
Integrity – each linked with skills and behaviours that inspire 
our people. Since the inception of the model, one of the main  The Pilote du Changement training programme was defined 
focuses of the HR department has been to increase the  to support the change management process, developing 
awareness and knowledge of the model itself throughout the  and transmitting our values, strengthening employee 
whole company. To achieve this goal, the Managerial Academy  engagement and bolstering collective motivation to better 
consists of different training courses, each regarding one  respond to new challenges. The programme was delivered to 
aspect of the model, aiming to provide our people with the  both managers and employees.
opportunity of improving their behavioural skills, thus helping 
77
them to achieve their development goals.
A second pillar in people development is Succession Planning, a 
strategic process that allows the identification and development  Sessions planned (Offshore E&C division)
of talents suitable to cover strategic positions in the medium and 
1,000
long term. The process starts with the definition of an expected 
about 
profile, consisting of responsibilities, experiences, know-how 
and strategic goals of the target position. A shortlist of internal  Employees involved from the Offshore E&C division
candidates is identified, including skill and experience mapping. 
The final steps of the process are a risk assessment and a 
contingency plan (i.e. external market scouting, training paths,  To develop specific competencies in fields such as 
mobility actions, growth towards more complex roles). renewables or green technologies, or technical commercial 
competencies, two training programmes were delivered to 
93
XSIGHT employees. The training programme in renewables 
and green technologies helped them to perform feasibility 
Strategic positions analysed studies independently and helped in the basic design of 
large-scale plants. The training programme for technical 
commercial competencies focused on topics such as market 
296
scenario, strategic positioning, and commercial negotiation.
 60
Internal candidates identified
more than
Employees involved
Deep in Saipem is a new initiative aiming to improve the 
knowledge of Saipem’s businesses, develop the sense 
of belonging to a single company and disseminate the  Beyond the differentiation between entry and continuing 
knowledge of the Leadership Model. It consists of a set of  training, for a company with a high technology content and 
DID YOU KNOW?
The Human Resources Committee was established in January 2018 with the main purpose of defining a unique Managerial 
Model and guaranteeing the development and career growth of those covering the required competencies. The committee 
members had the opportunity to deepen the knowledge of young Saipem talents, promoting and supporting career paths 
consistent with business needs and individual motivational drivers. The Committee carefully addressed each career path, 
taking into consideration experiences, potential, employability, performance and overall coverage of the Leadership Model.
54