working all over the world, knowledge of digital tools and  our operations with their own eyes. Since we have started 
big data are among the key factors. For this reason and in  such collaboration with the University of Ploiesti, around 30 
addition to traditional training courses and digital learning,  young graduates have been interviewed and around one 
we have also experimented with forms of reverse mentoring  third of them have been hired and are currently working at 
(SEED - Skill Exchange from Expert and Digital people),  Saipem Romania.
supporting junior and senior resources for mutual learning on  Another story comes from the experience of five Nigerian 
different technical fields. This initiative serves the purpose  engineers spending three months at Saipem headquarters 
of incentivising the exchange of digital, technical, managerial  in the framework of the NLNG Train 7 Feed Project for 
and behavioural skills between junior and senior resources in  technological transfer.
our organisation.
28 “
Our three months stay (September to November) in 
Milan was an interesting experience. We gained more 
Senior and junior resources involved knowledge and the exposure improved our scope of 
understanding and involvement in the project, leading to 
the company’s achievement of its goals for technological 
At the same time, we are strongly committed to the  transfer in accordance with the Nigerian content act. 
development and employment of local people.  We also had a memorable human experience and we  “
Providing job opportunities, transferring know-how and  earnestly look forward to another opportunity to explore 
capabilities contributes to creating value in the medium-long  such rare opportunities again.
term.
One story comes from Saipem Romania with its headquarters 
in Bucharest and an important Technology Centre in Ploiesti.  A stable presence in more than 60 countries means to provide 
To have a reliable source of potential manpower, over the last  locals with job opportunities but, sometimes, also
two years collaboration programmes with local universities,  facing critical business situations. In this second case, 
and specifically with UPG - Oil & Gas University from Ploiesti,  creating value can occur simply by solving these situations 
were developed. Each semester a delegation from Saipem  giving new opportunities to local employees. One example 
Romania visits the students, who gain precious information  comes from Indonesia where in 2018 a mobilisation process 
on how an international structured organisation operates  at the Karimun yard was managed. During 2018, the activity 
and on potential job opportunities within Saipem. Saipem,  in Karimun yard was limited to the Tangguh Expansion project 
on the other hand, gains new feedback regarding what new  and the low workload resulted in a demobilisation process. 
generations expect from a job assignment and how to better  Most of the remaining manpower was local; those who 
drive the right messages and topics to them.  demobilised from Karimun yard had the opportunity to work 
In the framework of this partnership, a delegation of  for other Saipem projects, either in Indonesia or worldwide: 
the BoD and 20 students of the UPG were invited to the  25% of the total number of personnel demobilised in 2018 
technology centre to experience an operational reality,  were re-hired by PT Saipem Indonesia for Onshore Tangguh 
starting from a full safety induction, continuing with a visit  Project; and welders, welding foremen, piping supervisors and 
of a production area where they had the possibility to see  wrappers were hired for Barzan Project in Qatar.
In terms of talent attraction, we  examples of the implementation of  The drilling community within 
concentrate efforts on initiatives  the programme. Saipem has worked on a growth 
with universities and technical high  Thanks to our strong presence in  plan for the business that has 
schools. In this framework, there are  the Arbatax fabrication yard area,  an optimistic outlook on the 
some initiatives worth mentioning. an agreement with two technical  reference markets. The Onshore 
The ‘Programma Sinergia’ is  and professional institutes in Tortolì  and Offshore Drilling divisions have 
based on a collaboration with  was reached: teachers from Saipem  thus invested in the most important 
technical high schools to create  delivered classroom training on  asset they have – skills – ‘adopting’ 
greater alignment and cooperation  technical matters while students  the mechanical studies class at 
between technical knowledge  were involved in an on-the-job  Istituto Superiore G. Marconi in 
and its use in Saipem’s business.  training programme in the yard. Piacenza creating a three-year 
This Italian programme includes  work-study programme focussed 
 140
school training programmes,  on drilling. ‘Teachers’ from Saipem 
almost
summer camp (theoretical and  and teachers from the school work 
practical courses) and short  Students involved together to develop industry skills 
internships. Below are two  including theory, project work, 
55