visits to the company, internships  objective in 2018 was to launch  Logistics, Quality Control, HSE and 
and, for the most deserving, a  a three-month internship  Engineering. At the completion 
summer camp. The success of the  programme to support the local  of the internship, they returned to 
Synergy Programme, launched  development strategy. In order  Guyana in December 2018, where 
by Saipem in 2011, lies in the  to enforce this strategy, we  they started working full time for 
integration of the technical skills  collaborated with the University  Saipem America - Guyana branch. 
held by Saipem and the teaching  of Guyana and the Government  Their commitment to hard work 
ability of the school. Technical Institute to recruit 4  and their professional development 
A second story comes from  interns to train in Houston, Texas.  will be an extraordinary asset to 
Guyana where, due to the vast  The interns had an opportunity  Saipem and Guyana.
opportunities for the O&G industry  to receive hands-on training in 
regarding the LIZA project, our  the areas of Human Resources, 
DID YOU KNOW?
55,000 students, trainees and working students in over 
Saipem SA has received the ChooseMyCompany  3,200 companies.
HappyIndex®/Trainees 2019 award and was included 
3.81/5
among the top ten companies in the category 20-99 
trainees and working students per year. The ranking 
rewards organisations in which the students are happier  Score in the HappyIndex® questionnaire
and more motivated and is based on the answers of nearly 
VALUING DIVERSITY
Saipem believes that diversity should not be treated as a 
‘one-off’ initiative. Promoting diversity and inclusion in the 
workplace is a constant work in progress to be maintained 
and nurtured in order to be effective. In that respect, Top 
Management believe that diversity, in all its dimensions, 
gender, culture, nationality, etc., constitutes a value for the 
company. The culture that values diversity in people’s minds 
and in the organisation shall be increasingly promoted in 
daily choices and behaviours. To this end, Saipem chose to 
become a member of ‘Valore D’ in July 2018. 
Valore D empowers companies to turn diversity and inclusion 
into a major asset, promoting new models for an inclusive 
organisation in order to support participation, collaboration 
and fruitful dialogue between different genders, ages and 
cultures within the company. Top Management has also 
promoted a cultural awareness workshop of ‘Unconscious 
Bias’ which will be held in March 2019.
56