VALUING HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
Health prevention, protection and promotion are one of the  using cognitive behavioural approach and neurolinguistics 
priority objectives for our company. Since cardiovascular  programming tools. It is structured in 4 phases consisting 
diseases (CVD) remain the leading cause of major  of lectures, activities and counselling delivered in 2-hour 
cardiovascular accidents including repatriation and mortality,  workshops.
Saipem’s commitment and activity is particularly focused on 
21
systematically addressing their risk factors: elevated blood 
pressure, dyslipidemia, cigarette smoking, raised blood 
sugar and physical inactivity. Their modification concurs to  Worksites involved in the campaign between 2015-2018
prevent cardiovascular accidents. For this reason a Cardio 
Vascular Disease Prevention (CVDP) programme has been 
implemented across all our sites. The programme includes  •  Telecardiology. It is a platform for second opinions and 
general awareness sessions about cardiovascular risk  readings of ECG reports, warranted by our site medical 
factors, screening of employees for cardiovascular risks,  staff to put a diagnosis or derive a differential diagnosis of 
identification of employees with elevated cardiovascular  cardiovascular diseases.
risks and their systematic monitoring, treatment follow-up 
50
and surveillance, provision of platform for information, 
education and training sessions.
Worksites covered
 16,200
more than  3,200
more than
Employees screened
Electrocardiograms transmitted
105
HEALTH AWARENESS AND PROMOTION 
Worksites covered
IN SENSITIVE AREAS
In this framework, particular attention has always been paid  Malaria is a life-threatening disease caused by parasites 
to programmes such as: that are transmitted to people through the bites of infected 
•  Weight control and obesity prevention. The prevalence of  female Anopheles mosquitoes. Although it is preventable and 
overweight and obesity has become one of the most critical  curable, in 2017, there were an estimated 219 million cases of 
health issues worldwide and in Saipem too. To address  malaria in 90 countries, causing more than 400,000 deaths. 
this, we have implemented this prevention programme,  The WHO African Region carries a disproportionately high 
which requires the measurement of Body Mass Index  share of the global malaria burden. In 2017, the region was 
(BMI) and waist circumference of the entire workforce with  home to 92% of malaria cases and 93% of malaria deaths1.
the identification of overweight and obese employees. If  Strongly committed to fighting this disease, Saipem has 
identified, they have to attend seminars where they are  implemented a Malaria Control Programme to monitor 
educated on healthy lifestyle modifications and are given a  Saipem worksites, their workforce and subcontractors. 
‘healthy weight ten-week challenge’ handouts to follow. The A-B-C-D methodology of Saipem Malaria Control 
Programme consists in:
48
‘A’ - Awareness - Malaria awareness lectures and refresher 
courses.
Worksites covered ‘B’ - Bite - Efforts to combat mosquito bites through weed 
control, external fumigations, and use of mosquito nets and 
repellents.
•  Stop smoking. The campaign is based on trans-theoretical  ‘C’ - Chemoprophylaxis - Medicines available to non-immune 
model of behavioural change, which takes the smoker  employees.
progressively through 5 stages of life changing habits:  ‘D’ - Diagnosis and Early Treatment - Rapid Diagnosis 
starts with no intention to change habits, to become  Available in all sites, tests are performed in case of 
aware that problems exist, then the intention to change,  suspected malaria and, if positive, are sent to laboratory, 
followed by actions to prevent relapse. The programme is  when these are reachable, for confirmatory test. Anti-malaria 
highly interactive, with perspective-changing exercises,  drugs are immediately given to confirmed cases.
(1) World Health Organisation (fact sheet updated in November 2018). 
57