HEALTH AWARENESS AND PROMOTION IN THE WORKPLACE
For the fifth year running, Saipem has taken part in the Workplace Health Promotion (WHP) programme as result of the 
joint efforts of employers, workers and local institutions. Its aim is to improve health and well-being in the workplace by 
adopting best practices in the field of health promotion: Saipem was awarded for reaching the programme’s goals by the 
regional government of Lombardy. The programme is founded on the principles of promoting health in the workplace by 
encouraging organisational changes that ensure an environment open to the conscious adoption and dissemination of 
healthy lifestyles, contributing to the prevention of the NCDs.
The trend of malaria cases recorded on Saipem worksites  association and the Health Ministry, a training programme was 
reached a plateau in 2018 compared with 2017, as well as  delivered to medical staff with the final aim of improving the 
the Overall Malaria Cases Rate: zero malaria-related deaths  health conditions of the population.
among Saipem workers and subcontractors was reported.
40
32
Health personnel trained
Worksites monitored
In Bolivia, near the area where a Saipem rig is located, a public 
In Angola the Malaria Control programme continued in 2018,  health conference was organised to promote awareness on the 
providing preventive measures on the worksites, as well as to  importance of the application of preventive practices of healthy 
the local communities. New local communities were involved  lifestyles and hygiene. The key point was the prevention of 
in the campaign which consists of regular indoor residual  diseases with higher prevalence in children under 5 years of age.
spraying and fumigations (3 sessions), training programmes  This activity consisted of teaching and reinforcing the basic 
in properly diagnosing malaria through laboratory analysis  principles of personal hygiene, washing hands, oral hygiene, 
for 20 technicians and an advanced training course in the  the use of home remedies to prevent seasonal diseases.
management and treatment of malaria cases for 25 nurses. 
 90
The campaign is implemented together with local health 
about
departments.
Adults and children took part in the workshop
15,000
more than 
3
Beneficiaries
Communities involved
Strengthening the skills of local medical staff was an 
important matter in Congo too where, together with a local 
58