METHODOLOGY AND REPORTING CRITERIA
Reporting principles
Directors. It is distributed at the Shareholders’ Meeting 
convened to approve the Annual Report.
‘Sustainable Saipem’ provides complete and detailed 
Materiality analysis
information about the matters of greatest interest to the 
Company’s stakeholders. This report has been prepared in 
accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. In order to define the sustainability themes considered 
The following principles have been used to identify the  most significant, both within the Company and in relation to 
contents of the document: stakeholder inclusiveness,  stakeholders, a materiality analysis was once again carried 
sustainability context, materiality and completeness.  out in 2018, hence for the eighth year running.
To guarantee the quality of the information contained in  The first step entailed identifying the significant aspects 
the report, the principles of accuracy, clarity, comparability,  which are considered in the analysis in order to pinpoint 
balance, reliability and timeliness were followed, again as  those that are material. Identification is based on the 
per GRI guidelines. More details on management approach  sustainability context and on the analysis of the stakeholders 
are included in the Consolidated Non-Financial Statement  involved. In order to simplify analysis and comparison of 
2018 and in the Management Report of the Annual Report  results, the 27 topics identified were broken down into
2018. 6 macro categories: (i) Environmental Management and 
The report is published annually and is approved by the  Impacts, (ii) Business Conduct and Operations, (iii) Safe 
managerial Sustainability Committee, the Sustainability,  Operations, (iv) People Management, (v) Human Rights, 
Scenarios and Governance Committee and the Board of  Diversity and Well-being and (vi) Local Presence and Support.
Final long list of issues  Topics
Environmental Management  Climate change prevention and GHG emissions; Energy efficiency; Water management;
and Impacts   Biodiversity and impact on ecosystems; Waste generation; Spill prevention and 
response; Renewable energy.
Business Conduct and Operations   Anti-Corruption and ethical business practices; Public policy engagement; Tax 
and Transparency; Corporate governance; Technology, operational innovation and 
research.
Safe operations   People safety; Safe operations, asset integrity and process safety; Emergency 
preparedness.
People Management  Training and development; Talent attraction and retention.
Human Rights, Diversity and Well-being   Global diversity and inclusion; Gender equality; Health and well-being; Human and 
labour rights; Ethical supply chain; Security practices.
Local Presence and Support   Local social licence to operate; Local employment and procurement; Community 
investments; Charity, donations and volunteering.
The level of external interest was defined by interviewing  all Saipem senior managers. More than 180 senior managers 
and surveying a representative mix of external stakeholders,  contributed identifying sustainability priorities for the 
in terms of types of organisation (16 clients, 6 local  long-term success of the Company. The materiality analysis 
community/NGO representatives, 45 business partners and  results were approved by the managerial Sustainability 
vendors, 9 business association representatives, 14 financial  Committee in late 2018.
stakeholders, 5 insurance partners and 7 government and 
Materiality analysis results 
regulator representatives) and geographic focus (10% 
and report content
international, 38% from Europe, 12% from CIS, 22% from the 
Middle East area, 9% from Africa, 5% from the Americas, and 
4% from the Asia-Pacific area). The most significant themes form the basis of this document 
The results were integrated with the outcomes of the  and provide qualitative and quantitative information on the 
surveys delivered to Saipem’s employees, collecting  Company’s sustainability performance. They are present in 
feedback from more than 4,300 people. In order to define the  the upper right area of the matrix.
level of internal significance, an additional survey was sent to 
59