ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS
To succeed in our purpose of contributing to the creation of value with our business, engagement and collaboration with 
our stakeholders is fundamental. Therefore, we maintain a constant and transparent dialogue with them, to understand their 
priorities and expectations and to contribute to the delivery of sustainable value in the countries where we operate.
The Management System Guideline (MSG) on ‘Stakeholder Engagement’ sets the principles and responsibilities for the 
engagement process with all relevant Saipem stakeholders. Informing them and sharing the company’s goals, programmes 
and initiatives with them, is the foundation of creating value for the company and for the stakeholders themselves. 
This approach has also enabled Saipem to build successful relations over the years with its stakeholders at the global level, 
thereby ensuring a lasting presence and an effective implementation of its projects in the areas of operation.
A conversation with… 
Fabio Belli, Fagioli SpA CEO
How would you describe your relationship with Saipem?
We have been working with Saipem for several decades now, and even now our collaboration continues with 
important contracts. Our long commercial affiliation has allowed us to develop a relationship of mutual trust  S
and to tackle many complex technological challenges. R
This is for example the recent case of Scarabeo 9 that was moved to the Black Sea. To do that it was  E
I
necessary to remove the drilling tower, so that the vessel could cross the Bosphorus Strait, and clear three  L
bridges in Istanbul.  P
P
In this case, our collaboration with Saipem started from the very beginning of the feasibility study, moving 
U
on to the engineering and the execution of the project. This early collaboration gave us, both Saipem and  S
Fagioli, the opportunity to identify and tackle the technological challenges that the project posed. Scarabeo 9   
R
reached the Black Sea in 2017 and the drilling tower was then successfully reassembled in Romania. Following  U
the end of the campaign in 2018 the vessel was again disassembled to be moved to the Mediterranean Sea. O
 
H
Has your cooperation with Saipem influenced your business prospects? T
When we started in the 1950s, we had an exclusively Italian client base. However, the experience gained on  WI
the projects completed around the world for our clients, as well as for Saipem, and the development of our   
P
commercial strategies, has allowed us to compete on the international market and to broaden our presence in 
I
several countries.  H
S
As an example, thanks also to different contracts with Saipem, Fagioli expanded (establishing branches and 
N
permanent premises) in North Africa (in the late 90’s), Canada (2013), Suriname (2013) and Indonesia (2016);  O
countries where the company is now fully operational. I
T
A
L
E
Fagioli is a world-wide certified  Over a short period of time Fagioli  market in project shipping with 
R
engineering company specialised  became a leading company in the  destinations and origins around   
N
in Heavy Transport and Lifting,  handling and transportation of  the world.
I
W
Project Logistics and Freight  goods throughout Italy. Continued  Over 60 years of experience has 
Forwarding activities. investments in personnel  put Fagioli into the forefront of  -
N
Fagioli, originally a transport  and equipment soon lead the  heavy transportation, lifting and  I
W
business, was created in 1955.  company into an ever-widening  applied engineering.
 
A
6