MEETING CUSTOMER EXPECTATIONS
As part of the overall stakeholder engagement approach, 
guaranteeing the satisfaction of our clients is key, both 
in terms of profitability of projects, but also in terms of 
effectiveness, efficiency and sustainability of the processes 
adopted in their execution. 
Specific customer satisfaction monitoring and analysis 
systems are being implemented in order to improve Saipem 
operational management and performance in meeting 
customers’ needs and maintaining closer relationships with 
them. Analysis of the results obtained through the systems 
are regularly subjected to the company Management 
Review in order to identify critical areas and preventive or 
improvement measures. 
A direct evaluation is regularly carried out with the 
involvement of clients through specific meetings and 
satisfaction questionnaires. Additionally, indirect evaluations 
are carried out at project level without the explicit 
involvement of the Client, in accordance with the criticality of 
the project phase and of the specific activities concerned.
During 2018, 50 operating projects were involved in the 
direct evaluation, with a feedback rate of 60%, for a total 
of 37 clients involved. More than 70% of respondents said 
they were completely satisfied with the company’s activities 
(meaning with an overall score of 9 or more in a scale from 
0 to 10).
LISTENING AS KEY TO EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
During the period between the end of 2017 and the beginning 
of 2018, an engagement survey has been carried out to 
measure employee satisfaction. Out of the 16,000 employees 
invited to take part, more than 5,000 participated in the 
engagement survey. They were asked to provide feedback on 
several aspects of the work environment and organisation. 
Employees mainly rewarded wellbeing, teamwork and 
professional development as successful aspects, while 
improvement opportunities have been identified in the area of 
leadership, rewarding and organisation. For all identified areas, 
some actions have been selected and are being implemented.
Furthermore, at the end of 2018 a new engagement project 
was launched. It is an active listening programme aimed at 
involving employees from different functions, positions and of 
different ages in order to discuss and listen to our employees’ 
proposals and concerns.
200
Employees involved in 2018 listening programme
28
Sessions held
7