Main Goals for the Future
Goals 2019 Performance
 2019 Sustainability Report in accordance with the GRI - 
Refine the structure and content of the Sus- Core version. For what concerns the material topics with no 
tainability Report indicator associated, proper KPI will be provided for the next 
editions of the document.
The reporting scope has been extended to include the economic 
Extend the boundary of sustainability report-
and financial data and basic human resources information of 
ing to the other companies of ICAM Group
the whole Group.
COMPLETED
Proceed with the formalization of the Materi-
The Company has disclosed its Materiality Matrix, presented 
ality Matrix, as defined by the GRI Standard
in this Document.
The Company has started engaging with its Human Resources 
Begin a continuous and systematic dialogue 
and has defined a Stakeholder Engagement Plan for the next 
with stakeholders
years. 
 The data presented were collected through specific forms and 
Set up an organizational process to collect 
interviews with the function representatives, in line with the 
the information needed for sustainability 
methodology required by the GRI Standards, and verified with 
reporting
an internal control process.
There were no increases in 2019.
Increase revenues, with particular reference to  This aspect merges into the broader objective of increasing 
the share produced by own-brand product revenues, with particular reference to the sale of finished 
products.
Increase revenues, with particular reference to 
NEW GOAL
the sale of finished products
Integrate the supplier evaluation questionnaire 
COMPLETED
with the analysis of the ethical certifications 
The Company has integrated the ethical certification request to 
they hold, as well as a general evaluation of 
its suppliers in a specific questionnaire.
their ethical pledges
There were no improvements in 2019.
Further improve the quota of directly sourced  This aspect merges into the broader objective of defining a 
cocoa cocoa purchase program that ensures compliance with ICAM 
values throughout the supply chain.
Definition of a cocoa purchase program 
that ensures compliance with ICAM values  NEW GOAL
throughout the supply chain
Water consumption reduced by 15%. A further reduction is 
Reduce water consumption by 50% by 2020
expected during 2020.
Reduce the percentage of non-recyclable mate-
The percentage of recyclable material has increased to 92%.
rials used in the packaging of chocolate
Review of the Company’s HACCP plan NEW GOAL
87