Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
1.4 The Sustainability Plan  While working on the definition of the Sustainability  Development  and  we  identified  18  objectives  of 
  Plan, we tried to bear in mind also the Sustainable  sustainability for the Group which we believe through 
Development Goals (SDGs), promoted by the United  our  efforts  can  contribute  to  the  achievement,  in 
The Sustainability Plan represents the strategic vision of the Group in the area of 
Nations and published in the 2030 agenda for Sustainable  particular, of nine of the seventeen SDGs.
sustainability and is the essential instrument for setting our objectives as well as 
the activities and plans we intend to use in order to reach them. 
Governance
The  five-year  Sustainability  Plan  2018-2022,  with  the  Development Goals) promoted by the United Nations 
implementation of the policies intended to generate and  and published in the 2030 agenda for Sustainable 
distribute resources to all the stakeholders represents  Development which the Group recognizes as relevant  1) Implementation of a corporate governance of sustainability
the mid- to long-term vision of the Group and the means 
for its business and in line with its goals;
for communicating the objectives and the actions to be        Actions       Results 2019       Objectives 2020 - 2022
•  The objectives of the Plan are updated every year and 
undertaken in order to achieve them. 
•  Instruct the Executive Administrator  •  The BoD which approved the NFD  •  To assure that the company 
take into consideration the results which have been 
By  combining  the  corporate  mission  with  the  in charge of the system of internal  for 2019 instructed the executive  maintains all of the initiatives 
achieved and those which still need to be reached as 
Sustainability Plan, the El.En. Group is able to respond to  controls and risks to define the  administrator as directed. intended to guarantee the mid- 
the challenges offered by the market while proposing a  well as the new issues which have emerged over time.  strategic points of Sustainability,  •  In 2018 the examination of the  to long-term sustainability of 
sustainable development which will be log lasting over  The base year of reference with which the quantitative  of the Plan and the examination  policies, the company objectives  the company activities that are 
time. targets are defined in the Plan is 2018.  of the Consolidated Non-financial  and the supervision of the  beneficial to the stakeholders in 
Statement. Sustainability Plan was assigned  compliance with regulations.
In  relation  to  the  14  material  topics  identified  and 
A sustainable and responsible development is expressed 
to the Commission of Controls and 
represented in the materiality matrix, the Sustainability 
through a Governance dedicated to the supervision and 
Risks.
Plan sets 18 sustainability objectives and 43 concrete 
the management of the sustainability issues, through 
actions which must be undertaken in order to achieve 
the growth and involvement of the employees, with the 
them.
2) Dialogue with the stakeholders
improvement of the working environment the support 
Each  objective  is  related  to  a  specific  macro-area 
of technological innovation, maintaining a high level 
(Governance,  Economic  responsibility,  Product        Actions       Results 2019       Objectives 2020 - 2022
responsibility, Responsibility towards human resources,  of customer satisfaction, dialogue and support of the 
•  Issuing and distribution of  •  Distribution of the materiality  •  Distribute the sustainability 
Social responsibility, and Environmental responsibility)  local community and the contribution to the reduction 
a questionnaire related to  questionnaire to some categories  questionnaire to all of the 
and to the related issues in each sector; of environmental impact. The chart below shows the 
sustainability topics to all  of employees of seven subsidiary  employees of the Group to 
•  The  objectives  of  the  El.En.  Group  contribute  to  objectives contained in the plan, the results achieved 
employees; companies; gather opinions, suggestions and 
the  achievement  of  nine  of  the  SDGs  (Sustainable  and the goals for the next few years. evaluations;
•  Re-enforcement of dialogue with  •  In 2018 the questionnaire was 
the stakeholders. distributed to the main suppliers  •  We conducted stakeholder 
of  El.En. S.p.A. and Quanta System  engagement activities and involved 
S.p.A.. the main categories of stakeholders.
3) Promotion of a sustainability culture
      Actions       Results 2019       Objectives 2020 - 2022
•  Conduct training sessions on  •  We conducted 181 hours of training  •  To conduct training sessions 
the objectives contained in the  on sustainability issues and on the  on sustainability sessions on 
Sustainability Plan and the actions  objectives and actions described  sustainability issues for some 
that must be taken in order to reach  in the Sustainability Plan for some  categories of employees in all of the 
them; categories of employees of the  companies belonging to the Group;
Parent Company and six subsidiary  •  Create work groups dedicated to 
•  Organize training meetings in  companies. sustainability issues;
class or via web in order to create  •  Create on-line training lessons on 
awareness in the employees on  company policies related to social 
sustainability issues. and environmental issues.
20 21