Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
4) Active and passive anti-corruption fight 
Human Resources 
      Actions       Results 2019       Objectives 2020 - 2022
•  Prevention of corruption in all  •  We adopted an Anti-Corruption  •  Creation of specific on-line training for 
spheres of influence. Policy approved by the Parent  some categories of employees with 
8) Guaranteeing health and safety in the workplace
Company of the Group; response and certification that the test 
•  Spread and training in relation to  •  We continued with training based  has been passed.        Actions       Results 2019       Objectives 2020 - 2022
the Group Ethics Code. on Model 231 for some employees  •  Approval  of the Anti-corruption 
of the Italian subsidiaries where this  Policy by the subsidiary companies; •  Promotion of a culture of health  •  We conducted over 2,000 hours  •  To continue to promote training 
model had been adopted; •  Continuation of the training  and safety in the workplace; of training related to health and  tools and information on health and 
•  We distributed the Ethics Code to  sessions based on Model 231 for  •  Conducting the activities that every  safety; safety for the employees.
newly hired employees of nine of  all of the employees of the Italian  company follows in relation to  •  We reduced the injury-rate, if 
the subsidiary companies and in  subsidiaries that have adopted it; health and safety and then proceed  compared to last year.
four of these companies we plan  •  Distribution of the Ethics Code and  to the definition of a procedure for 
an initial specific training course on  an initial specific training in all of  the collective activities.
the Ethics Code. the subsidiary companies.
9) Increasing the well-being of the employees 
Economic responsibility
      Actions       Results 2019       Objectives 2020 - 2022
•  Improvement of the well-being of  •  We inaugurated a company gym  •  To  continue with well-being 
5) Creating sustainable value 
the employees during the working  for the companies situated at  initiatives;
hours; our headquarters in Calenzano 
      Actions       Results 2019       Objectives 2020 - 2022
•  Spread of a culture of well-being  (Firenze). •  To start an awareness program  
•  Conduct the activities of the  •  In 2018 we created a central unit  •  To guarantee the satisfaction  through programs aimed at  •  We started a remodeling project of  related to the spread of a wellness 
company so that they create the  for coordinating sustainability and  and meet the expectations of all  encouraging  a healthy life style; the offices of the companies located  culture;
conditions for a sustainable and  local focal points in each of the  the stakeholders by achieving  •  Definition of programs to  at headquarters in Calenzano  
economical development. subsidiary companies. the objectives outlined in the  guarantee access to the best health  (Firenze). •  To conduct an annual survey of 
Sustainability Plan. and welfare services; •  We inaugurated a new production  the employees in retain to internal 
•  Annual surveys of employees  site for Cutlite Penta S.r.l. and Ot-las  climate conditions.
related to the internal climate  S.r.l. companies in Prato (Prato).
conditions. •  We inaugurated a new production 
6) Promotion of a culture and sustainable procurement practices site for A.S.A. S.r.l..
•  We completed the expansion of the 
      Actions       Results 2019       Objectives 2020 - 2022 production site of Asclepion GmbH.
•  Definition  and  promotion  of  •  We planned the expansion of the  •  To increase awareness and training 
social,  environmental  and  ethical  Ethics Code for the part related to  of our suppliers in relation to ESG 
standards amongst our suppliers. relations with our suppliers and the  issues.
spread of the new version. 10) Promotion of the training and enhancement of human capital
      Actions       Results 2019       Objectives 2020 - 2022
•  Definition and implementation  •  We adopted a policy regarding  •  To increase awareness and re-
7) Carry out checks on suppliers during the selection phase, taking into account social and 
of training and development  human rights which was approved  enforce the perception of People 
environmental criteria
programs; by the Parent Company; in terms of issues of diversity and 
human rights;
      Actions       Results 2019       Objectives 2020 - 2022
•  Attract young resources through  •  About 21.800 hours of training were  •  To obtain approval of the Human 
•  Promotion of good sustainability  •  Addition of a check list when  •  To guarantee the level of uniformity  partnerships with universities and  conducted at a consolidated level. Rights Policy from all  of the 
practices  at our suppliers’ selecting critical suppliers which  in compliance to their standards  research centers. subsidiary companies;
includes questions related to social  and the respect of a sustainable  •  To continue to initiate partnerships 
and environmental issues.  supply chain. with universities and research centers.
22 23