Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
Social responsibility
Product responsibility 
11) Expansion of positive social impact through our products  15) Guaranteeing the highest level of quality of the 
product and compliance with technical standards 
      Actions       Results 2019       Objectives 2020 - 2022
      Actions       Results 2019       Objectives 2020 - 2022
•  To issue instruments and solutions  •  In the medical sector research  •  To continue to issue high 
on the market which make it  and development of new laser  performance products on the  •  Continual improvement of the  •  El.En. S.p.A, Deka Mela S.r.l., Quanta  •  To insure that the requirements for 
possible to improve the patient’s  systems or the improvement of pre- market. quality and respect of the technical  System S.p.A. and Asclepion GmbH  quality of the processes, in line with 
quality of life; existing ones so that an increased  standards in every phase of  have obtained the MDSAP Medical  the expectations of the market, 
Device Single Audit Program 
•  To issue on to the market  percentage of the population  manufacturing. are respected in an efficient and 
certification.
technologies for industrial  can benefit from the innovative  integrated manner.
•  All of the companies of the Group 
applications which reduce the  technologies  that can improve  have maintained the pre-existing 
environmental impact and  their well-being. In the industrial  certifications.
consumption of resources  sector, research and development 
and improve the quality and  to improve the flexibility and  16) Investing in innovation, research and development to benefit the progress of scientific knowledge 
productivity of work. decrease consumption of electrical 
      Actions       Results 2019       Objectives 2020 - 2022
energy of the production systems.
•  Investing in research and  •  4% of the investments in research  •  Monitor the trends and act in a 
12) Support of non-profit organizations, foundations and scientific laboratories  development for the purpose of  and development. specific and focused way in the 
developing products and processes 
•  6 active research centers. areas of interest of the clients.
which satisfy the requirements and 
      Actions       Results 2019       Objectives 2020 - 2022 •  23 patents pending as of December 
needs of the clients and optimize 
31st 2019.
their satisfaction.
•  Support of non-profit organizations,  •  Donation of a laser for rehabilitation  •  To increase the well-being of 
foundations and scientific  to the Valduce hospital. people who make use of the 
laboratories by assisting them in  services offered by non-profit 
Environmental 
the use of the new technologies  •  Support of non-profit organizations  organizations and foundations.
which are available to patients.  and/or foundations through  responsibility 
monetary donations.
17) Promoting policies to increase energy efficiency
13) Contributing to the conservation of the world’s artistic heritage
      Actions       Results 2019       Objectives 2020 - 2022
      Actions       Results 2019       Objectives 2020 - 2022 •  Introduction of the sustainability  •  Adoption of an Environmental Policy  •  Approval of the Environmental 
requirements like the use of lighting  approved by the Parent companies; Policy by all of the subsidiary 
•  Support of the conservation of the  •  Donation of two lasers per  •  To continue to protect the world’s 
•  Adoption of lighting and air 
and air-conditioning systems with  companies.
world’s artistic heritage. restorations to the Uffizi Galleries in  artistic heritage in order to preserve  conditioning systems with low 
low environmental impact when 
Florence. its beauty for future generations. environmental impact during re-
refitting rooms.  modeling work conducted by the 
companies of the Group;
•  Installation of solar panels at  Asa 
14) Strengthening relations with the community  S.r.l. and at Asclepion GmbH.
      Actions       Results 2019       Objectives 2020 - 2022
18) Decreasing the environmental impact  
•  Promotion of indicatives which  •  During this year we have sponsored  •  Continued support of initiatives 
      Actions       Results 2019       Objectives 2020 - 2022
contribute to the growth of the  some non-profit associations in the  promoting the social and 
local community also through  communities in which the Group  economic development of the local  •  Promotion of ecological behavior  •  Distribution of a steel canteen to all  •  To promote among our employees 
partnerships with associations and  operates; community in which the Group  among the employees. of the employees of Quanta System  a culture for the rational use 
non-profit organizations; •  We have developed alternating  operates. S.p.A. and a glass bottle to the  of sources of energy and the 
employees of  Asclepion GmbH; consequent reduction of the related 
•  Promotion of alternating school- school-work projects and 
•  Installation of a water fountain in the 
costs.
work programs and curricular and  curricular and extra-curricular  headquarters in Calenzano and at 
extra-curricular apprenticeships. apprenticeships. Asa S.r.l..
24 25