Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
The values of El.En. Group Certifications 
 
Our products and our quality control system are certified by the most important institutions 
represent our cultural identity and our principles which are adhered to everyday by all the people who work with 
at a global level; we receive periodically inspections for the renewal of the certificates that 
us; together with our mission they represent our point of reference for our daily activity.
we possess and which are indispensable for exporting our products abroad. 
Training
Know-how 
In all of our companies the training of the personnel as well as the training of the doctors and 
All of the companies which belong to our Group have contributed decisively to increasing 
of our business partners is the only tool to increase or disseminate our knowledge and make 
our knowledge of laser technology; this background has been made available to the scientific 
it available to others.
community for the befit of the cultural heritage of humanity.
Ethics
Research and development  We are aware of our responsibility towards society and the environment in which we live and 
for this reason we have adopted an Ethics Code which represents our company culture and is 
founded on social and ethical responsibility in the management of all of our activities.
The researchers of the El.En. Group are constantly involved in national and international 
research projects and collaborate with research centers and university departments.
Community
We have always been committed to a policy in which our work generates a social impact and 
benefits the local community, both through the continuous effort dedicated to our work as 
Innovation 
well as the support of social, cultural and educational  initiatives in the areas in which our 
companies operate.
In its research and development centers the Group works every day to find substantial 
innovations and to maximize the efficiency and effectiveness of those already in existence  Future 
in order to guarantee a continuous improvement in their performance and contribute to the 
welfare of the community. 
The continual research aimed at technological improvement, the simplicity of operation 
and the discovery of new medical applications, the reduction of wastefulness and of 
environmental impact obtained with industrial systems, the sensitivity directed to the 
conservation of our artistic heritage combined with the sustainability objectives we have 
People  set, direct us towards a future in which we will be committed to generate value to insure a 
sustainable future for the next generations.
The history of our Group is made up of great women and men who, with their commitment 
and their ideas, in the medical sector have brought enormous benefits to the quality of life  Multiculturalism 
of the patients and the work of the doctors and,  in the industrial sector, have contributed 
to the improvement of the quality and productivity of the work while reducing the 
One of the key factors for success is multiculturalism. Our companies are present in eight 
environmental impact and the waste of materials. 
different countries on three continents and our business partners and our technologies are 
located all over the world.
30 31