Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
2012
 
Emergency COVID-19
Monna Lisa TouchTM (Deka Mela S.r.l.)  for 
the treatment of vaginal atrophy
Cyber (Quanta System S.p.A.)  By mid-January 2020 it had become clear that the Covid-19 epidemic with its epicenter in 
surgery, Lithotripsy and BHP  Wuhan, where the subsidiary Penta-Chutian Laser (Wuhan) is located was spreading rapidly. 
 
2013 The Chinese government adopted drastic measures to contain the contagion and inhouse-
 
quarantine was imposed in all of the province of the cities Wuhan, Hubei and other provinces. 
Cutlite Penta S.r.l.  constitues their second Chinese joint 
Limitations in the circulation of people and the lockdown of the city of Wuhan still remain, while 
venture Penta Laser Equipment (Wenzhou) Co. Ltd
in some of the other provinces life is gradually returning to normal thanks to the substantial 
reduction of the number of new patients. The impact on the activities of the Group has been 
extremely significant and the three factories in China had to extend the closure and stop all 
2015
 
production. In the cities of Lin Yi and in Wenzhou activities started again in early March but very 
Bolt (Penta Chutian e Wenzhou - China)  slowly due to the difficulty of moving from one province to another. However, in Wuhan, where 
enhanced system for cutting metal 
most of our employees live, the city is still under quarantine. While lost capacity is starting to be 
overtaken after losing a couple of months, the demand for the products will require more time 
before returning to the levels expected for 2020. 
2016
  Even in Italy the measures taken by the government have blocked all sales on Italian territory 
Discovery Pico (Quanta System S.p.A.)  Motus AX with Moveo (Deka Mela S.r.l.)  but, despite all the difficulties, where it is possible and where it is allowed, with the maximum 
removal of tattoos and pigmented lesions and  hair removal, removal of pigmented lesions  considerations for the protection of the health and safety of the workers, production has 
dermatological treatments
continued in order to satisfy the significant volume of orders coming from abroad. The 
Juliet® (Asclepion GmbH) for the treatment of 
HIRO TT (ASA S.r.l.)  vaginal atrophy restrictions that have been imposed have caused the cancellation of all trade fair and congress 
painful pathologies of the muscle and skeletal  events involving the markets of the Group and have prohibited to travel abroad, that is part of 
the usual marketing activities of the Group.
Fiber Plus (Cutlite Penta S.r.l.) first metal cutting
system with laser sources in fiber
In consideration of the Covid-19 emergency which is catalyzing most of the resources 
Deka M.E.L.A. S.r.l. and Quanta System S.p.A. 
of the public health institutions, the Board of Directors which met on March 13th 2020, 
merge under a single brand name
Reinassance® marketed in Italy voted to increase to 500 thousand Euros the funds that the Group allocates to Social 
Responsibility,  as  part  of  the  implementation  of  their  sustainability  policy.  These 
2017
  resources consist of technologies and contributions which will be used for specific activities 
in support of Public Health.
Industrial sector
RF 1222 “The Big Boy” 
2018
 
ONDA (Deka Mela S.r.l.) first microwave 
system for  body-contouring 
CoolwavesTM technology.
2019
 
The  Chinese  subsidiary  Penta 
Laser  Equipment  (Wenzhou)  Co. 
Ltd  founded  the  third  Chinese 
company, Penta Laser Technology 
(Shangdong) Co. Ltd With  the  acquisition  of  70%  of  the 
Galli  S.r.l.  company  Quanta  System 
S.p.A. is now equipped with an internal 
facility for the production of precision 
mechanical components. 
36 37