Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
2.3 Our markets   The medical sector of laser systems for aesthetics and  therapy and surgery. The effectiveness and reliability 
medicine: of our systems have allowed our company to become 
The medical division of the El.En Group designs and  one of the world leaders in this sector. In over thirty 
El.En. S.p.A. directs a group of companies that operate  of the dynamism and flexibility of the single business  produces lasers and light systems for all the applications  years of activity and research we have reached a level of 
in  the  field  of  the  manufacture,  research  and  units without losing the benefit of a single coordinated 
in  the  medical  field,  mainly  in  the  aesthetic  sector,  excellence with these products. 
development, distribution and sale of laser systems.  management of the technical, managerial, marketing 
The activity of all of the companies is coordinated with  and financial  resources. Our business is divided into two 
an aim to better serve the markets by taking advantage  main sectors:
MEDICAL DIVISION INDUSTRIAL DIVISION
Aesthetics Cutting
Surgery Marking
Therapy Sources
Medical Service Restoration
Industrial Service
The  industrial  sector  of  laser  systems  for  industrial  safety and electrical efficiency. 
manufacturing: The Group also operates in the sector of restoration of 
The El.En. Group creates for the industrial sector laser  works of art: for many years they have contributed to 
systems for cutting and marking; these systems can be  the conservation of the artistic and historical heritage all 
adapted for multiple uses and can be used on many  over the world by proposing state-of-the-art solutions 
different  kinds  of  materials. They  also  produce  laser  that are minimally invasive, developed in cooperation 
sources with performance that can be incremented in  with the most important research centers and tested in 
terms of the speed and quality of the processes, reliability,  important restoration laboratories.
38 39