Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
3.   Organizational profile of the Group executive; the non-executive members , two of which  the Committee for controls and risks the task of assisting 
are independent, have been organized, to have  a role  the Board of Directors by informing them in the form 
of consultation and proposal in support of the board  of proposals and consulting about the evaluation and 
in three commissions: the Committee for risks and  decisions  related  to  sustainability  issues  connected 
El.En. has created a solid model of Corporate Governance which has a central role 
controls, the Committee for remuneration and the  with the activities of the company and its dynamics of 
in the conduction of the activities of the Group. This model is in line with the self- interaction with all of the stakeholders, to the social 
Committee for appointments.
disciplining Code issued by the Italian stock market and contributes significantly  responsibility  of the company, to the examination of the 
The committees are composed of three non-executive 
possible scenarios for the creation of a strategic plan and 
to the creation of sustainable value over a mid to long-term period.  members,  two  of  which  are  independent. The  work 
the corporate governance of the companies of the Group. 
of each committee is coordinated by a president. The 
In  order  to  re-enforce  the  sustainability  governance, 
composition,  tasks  and  powers  attributed  to  the 
during the meeting which approved this consolidated 
committees  are  disciplined  by  special  regulations 
3.1 The Corporate Governance model non-financial  document,  the  Board  of  Directors 
approved by the Board of Directors.
entrusted the executive manager of the internal controls 
With  reference  to  sustainability  issues  and  to  the  system  with  the  task  of  defining  the  main  strategic 
The Corporate governance model selected by El.En. S.p.A.  and a Board of Auditors which has controlling functions; 
communication of information of a non-financial nature  directions for sustainability, the Sustainability Plan and 
is the traditional system based on a Board of Directors  the  system  of  Corporate  Governance  that  has  been 
in compliance with  D.Lgs. 254/2016, they attributed to  the examination of the Non-financial Reporting.
which has the task of strategic directing and supervising  chosen is composed of the following figures:
Gabriele Clementi
President and Managing 
SHAREHOLDERS' ASSEMBLY
director 
Executive
Michele Legnaioli Andrea Cangioli
Director Managing director
Non executive Executive 
Board of directors
Composition of the 
board of directors 
 
Board of  Supervising  Executive  Commitee for C ommitee for Commitee for  Auditing 
auditors body Directors President RC iosknst raonlsd Remuneration Appointments company of El.En. spa 
as of december 31st 2019
Alberto Pecci Barbara Bazzocchi
Director Managing director
Provost for  Non executive Executive 
Internal Audit
Executive officier 
responsible for 
drawing up the  Fabia Romagnoli
financial 
statements Director 
Non-independent director Non executive
Shareholders' Assembly:  the Assembly is the company  and the strategic, industrial and financial planning of  Independent director 
body where the shareholders participate in the decisions  the Group and the relative monitoring. The board is  in compliance with art. 147 ter TUF and art. 3 
Self-disciplining Code 
of the Company on the issues that the law and the  appointed by the Shareholders' assembly and has a role 
company statutes state are of their competence; the  of strategic direction and evaluation of the adequacy 
shareholders'  assembly  nominates  the  members  of  of the control systems that have been implemented.   Directors, divided by gender (%) Directors, divided by age group (%)
the Board of Directors and the Board of Auditors and  The composition, the role and the functioning of the  33% 17% 50%
approves the financials for the year.  El.En.  Board  of  Directors  are  in  conformity  with  the  Women 50 - 59
Men 60 - 69
Board of Directors3: The board is the main body of the  law and with the Self-disciplining Code  for quoted 
70 - 79
system of Corporate Governance and it has the function  companies. The Board of Directors that is now in office 
67% 33%
of analysis, sharing and approval of the annual budgets  is composed of six members, three of which are non-
3 The members of the Board of Directors were appointed by the shareholders' assembly on April 27th, 2018 and will remain in office for the  4 The division of the Board of Directors into age groups was reported in categories of age 50-59 years, age 60-69 years and age 70-79 years, 
three year period 2018-2020. unlike that established by the GRI since it was more representative of the composition of the board.
44 45