Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
El.En. S.p.A. is one of the few quoted companies that has had, since its founding a woman, Barbara Bazzocchi, on  3.2 Ethics, integrity and compliance
its board of directors, first as sole administrator and later as executive administrator.
The  Board  of  Directors  has,  among  its  various  the adequacy of the type of organization of El.En. S.p.A.  The El.En. Group is aware of its responsibility towards society and the environment 
responsibilities,  that  for  internal  controls  and  the  for the aspects that pertain to its area of competence, 
in which it operates and believes that it is indispensable that ethical and transparent 
management of risks, in relation to which it determines  the  internal  controls  system,  the  administrative  and 
behavior be followed in every aspect of the management of company activities, both 
the guide lines and periodically verifies the adequacy  accounting system adopted by El.En. S.p.A., and their 
and the effective functioning  and making sure that the  correct functioning. Moreover, the Board also acts in the  in relation to the respect of the law and the regulations as well as the considerations 
main risks related to the activities of the Group have been  role of Commission for internal controls and auditing  of the expectations of all of the stakeholders.
correctly identified, measured, monitored and managed. in compliance with art. 19 D. Lgs. 39/2010. The Board 
Board  of  Auditors::  the  board  is  appointed  by  the  of auditors that is now in office  is composed of three 
For this reason starting in 2008 the Parent Company  and ASA S.r.l. have adopted the Organizational Model 
shareholders' assembly and has the task of guaranteeing ,  standing  auditors  and  two  alternate  auditors  who 
started using its own Ethics Code  as an instrument for re- in compliance with D.lgs 231/2001 (from now on, 
in compliance with the law and the company statues, the  possess the requirements for honesty, professionalism 
enforcing and disseminating a company culture founded  "Organizational Model"), which is intended to prevent 
respect of the main principles of correct administration,  and independence. 
on the importance of ethic and social responsibility in  employees and/or collaborators from committing crimes in 
the conducting of business and company activities.  the interest of the company. This model for the organization, 
Board of auditors
The Ethics Code defines the principles and values that  management and control of the company activities is made 
must be followed in every moment of the manufacturing  up of a series of general principles of behavior in the areas 
Members Position End of term
process and must be constantly observed in collegiate,  which have been identified  as sensitive, for the purposes 
Vincenzo Pilla President Approval of financials for 2021 collaborative and business relations: legality, impartiality,  of preventing the  so-called assumption crimes and by a 
honesty,  correctness,  equity,  and  putting  to  best  system equipped with control activities and procedures for 
advantage collaborators and the integrity of people. The  the prevention of these crimes. 
Paolo Caselli Standing auditor Approval of financials for 2021
Code is applied to the Group and to all the subjects that  The areas that are protected because they have been 
conduct activity in its favor.  identified as sensitive are crimes related to safety and 
Rita Pelagotti Standing auditor Approval of financials for 2021
The companies of the Group have all accepted the Ethics  health on the workplace (ASA S.r.l. identified only this area 
Code and, where necessary it has been translated into  as being sensitive for the planning of a special section 
Daniela Moroni Alternate auditor Approval of financials for 2021 the local language. They have accepted the commitment  of  its  Organizational  Model);  crimes  against  the  Public 
to disseminate it to their employees and collaborators  Administration, corporate crimes, receiving stolen goods, 
Gino Manfriani Alternate auditor Approval of financials for 2021 using the proper channels of communication. The Code  money laundering, use of money, goods or utilities of 
is always available in its up-dated version on the internet  illegal origin; moreover,  El.En. S.p.A. and Deka M.E.L.A. 
site www.elengroup.com, in the section titled “Investor  S.r.l. have identified as sensitive areas also those related to 
Auditing company: the auditing company is an external  The other Italian companies of the Group follow the 
Relations/ Governance/ Documenti Societari”. the following crimes: market abuse, transnational crimes, 
entity which has the task of auditing the accounts and  traditional model and consequently are administrated by 
environmental crimes.  With particular reference to the risks 
The rules set forth in the Ethics Code are intended to 
which is selected by the Shareholders' Assembly. The  a Board of Directors or a sole Administrator and, where 
related to ethical behavior, the El.En Group has directed their 
protect the integrity of the Group and to assure their 
auditing company that is presently in office is  Deloitte  necessary, they have a controlling organ and are subject 
attention to the prevention of risks related corruption. 
conformity to the laws and to the regulations in each 
& Touche S.p.A.. to auditing.
country in which it operates. The Group is committed to  In this context, the Parent Company El.En. S.p.A. and its 
establishing the opportune channels of communication  subsidiaries  Deka M.E.L.A. S.r.l. and Quanta System S.p.A. 
through which they can received reports of violations  have  analyzed  and  considered  relevant  this  risk  and 
or  suspected  violations  of  the  Code,  or  requests  for  they have inserted it in their Organizational Model D.lgs. 
explanations. The  violation  of  the  principles  defined  231/2001. In order to further reinforce their system for 
in the Code constitutes a breach of contract derived  the prevention of corruption and bribery, on November 
from the failure to observe the contract for work and/ 14th 2019 the Parent Company, El.En. S.p.A approved an 
or collaboration and is a source for compensation of  Anti-corruption Policy which will be extended to all of 
damages.  the subsidiary companies. 
In the contracts that have been underwritten by the  These companies have conducted an analysis of the 
Parent Company with consultants, distributors, agents  risks  for  the  committing  of  cries  against  the  public 
and suppliers of critical components explicit reference is  administration  (including  those  involving  corruption) 
made to the Ethics Code of the Group and the other party  from which. however, no particularly high level of risk 
must declare that they have received a copy and that they  emerged, in consideration of the existence of procedures 
accept it. Moreover, the Parent Company  and the Italian  designed  to  prevent  it  and  the  type  of  business 
subsidiaries, Deka M.E.L.A. S.r.l., Quanta System S.p.A.  conducted.
46 47