Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
FOCUS: The respect of human rights
The Group sustains and  respects the  rights of the individual in conformity with the 
Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations and, consequently, requires the greatest 
respect for people and for the regulations that are applicable in relation to work; they 
do not tolerate any behavior that is discriminatory or threatens the safety of people. The 
Group considers impartial treatment to be a fundamental value in every relationship both 
within and outside of the company and believes that the individual, his/her ideologies and 
his/her rights are values which must be protected. The behavior of every employee and 
collaborator must be in conformity with the principles and regulations expressed in the 
Ethics Code and the legal and contractual rules that regulate labor relations regulations. 
By disseminating their own Ethics Code even to collaborators and suppliers the El.En. 
Group has established a safeguard aimed at guaranteeing the respect of human rights 
(prohibition of discrimination, prohibition of forced or child labor, free association) even 
in those areas that are held to be of the greatest potential risk in relation to these issues 
(for example, the supply chain).
To increase awareness of these issues which are considered top priority, on November 
14th, 2019 the Board of Directors of El.En. S.p.A. approved the Human Rights Policy 
which will be extended to all the subsidiary companies.
Nevertheless, they have identified the most sensitive  make use of a Supervising Body which is appointed by 
areas and have inserted a special section dedicated to the  the Board of Directors; The main duty of the Supervisory 
prevention of crimes of this type in the Organizational  Body is that of monitoring and, when necessary, reporting 
Model. The analysis therefore started with the mapping  to the Board of Directors any irregularity or violation, and 
of the activities and the identification of the risk related  to supervise the respect of the procedures set up by the 
Company, as part of the prevention plan of the so-called 
to each of them by attributing a certain number of 
assumption crimes, identified after an in-depth analysis 
points. The parameters used for the point system were: 
which includes corporate crimes and crimes related to 
the number of times it had happened in the past, the 
health and safety in the workplace.
existence of company procedures, the impact of the 
The El.En. Group believes that knowledge and adhesion 
penalties for this type of crime and the frequency of 
to the principles of the Ethics Code and Model 231 must 
the event. We decided that the frequency of the event  
be promoted through specific training projects for the 
and the impact of the penalties made it opportune to 
people who work within the organization: again this year, 
dedicate a part of the Organizational Model to all the 
for some of the Italian companies we have conducted 
preventive activities related to this kind of crime, even 
specific training in relation to Model 231 which were held 
if the occurrence in the past (no event of this type has 
by members of the Supervisory Body which reached 277 
taken place) and the existence of company procedures 
employees during the year. 
lowered the risk. The Ethics Code also contains precise 
At  Quanta  System  S.p.A.,  Asclepion  GmbH,  and  the 
directives related to correct behavior which are intended 
Chinese subsidiaries all newly hired employees must 
to avoid the occurrence of corruption. In 2019, no cases 
attend a specific training course on the Ethics Code of 
or reports of corruption were registered. 
the El.En. Group which in 2019 reached 172 employees, 
In order to guarantee  the principles contained in the  while in the other subsidiary companies the Ethics Code 
Ethics Code and the effective implementation of the  is distributed in paper copy when they are hired. These 
systems for the flow of information and controls described  activities will be continued in order to spread these 
in Model 231 the companies of the Group that initiated it  principles more broadly within the organization.
48 49