Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
3.3  Internal controls system and risk management
The relations with national and international institutions  In order to guarantee the greatest clarity in relations, 
must  be  conducted  respecting  the  legislative  and  contacts with the institutional representatives must take 
In a context of continuous evolution, where sustainability issues of the company 
administrative regulations and in the spirit of the greatest  place  exclusively  through  representatives  who  have 
activities, the fight against climate change, the protection of the environment and 
collaboration. explicit mandate from the persons who are authorized to 
do so by the companies of the Group. the adoption of suitable policies for development have become of fundamental 
For this purpose, as defined in the Ethics Code , we are 
importance, the efficient management of risks is a key factor which every company 
committed to: Interaction  with  the  Public  Administrations,  with  EU 
institutions,  with  organisms  and  with  international  must now evaluate with greater attention. For this purpose, the El.En Group has 
•  Establishing  stable  channels  of  communication, 
agencies must always be inspired by the principles of  defined a System of Internal Controls and Management of Risks which is composed 
without any type of discrimination, with all the relative
legality, loyalty, correctness and transparency.
of specific rules and procedures in order to be able to evaluate the present trends 
•  institutions at an international, national and local  
With  all  of  the  authorities  who  conduct  inspections, 
and the new challenges of the market and succeed in taking advantage of the 
level;
supervision, regulatory and guaranteeing activities, the 
opportunities that arise by a careful management of all the related risks. 
•  Representing the interests and the positions of the 
Group  maintains  relations  of  complete  collaboration 
companies of the Group in a way that is transparent, 
and rapidly places at their disposal any information that 
For El.En. S.p.A. and the Group, whose objective is the  by the Board of Directors to the different bodies at 
•  rigorous  and  consistent  and  avoiding  collusive  is requested and acts in conformity with the provisions 
sustainability  of  the  company  activities  over  a  mid  various levels. The organization of the System of Internal 
attitudes; issued.  to long-term period and the creation of value in the  Controls and Risk Management is set up as follows:
respect of external stakeholders, the system of internal  •  The Board of Directors and the Board of Auditors, 
For further details concerning the Ethics Code of the Group, please refer to the Code itself which is available on the company website: www. controls and risk management is understood to be  as  stated  in  the  preceding  paragraphs,  have, 
elengroup.com. a series of methods of analysis of the procedures, the  respectfully, the task of evaluating the adequacy of 
functions and organizational structure and the relative  the system of internal controls which is being used 
activities conducted in order to identify the main risks  and conducting the function of the Committee for 
for the company, the methods used for managing them  internal controls;
and the organization of the system for safeguarding 
•  The  Committee  for  Controls  and  Risks  which 
against them.  The organization of an adequate system of 
has the task of supporting the Board of Directors 
controls is meant to implement an efficient management 
in its evaluations and decisions relative to System 
of the company, the safeguarding of the corporate assets, 
of internal controls and risk management and, as 
the efficient management of the company processes, 
mentioned above, starting this year, also regarding 
the reliability of the information disseminated by the 
sustainability issues;
Company both of a financial and non-financial nature, 
•  Executive  administrator  responsible  for  the 
as well as the respect of the laws, the regulations, the 
System of Internal Controls and Risk Management  
company  statutes  and  internal  procedures.  For  the 
has the task of instituting and maintaining an efficient 
purposes  of  building  and  developing  an  adequate 
system of internal controls and risk management; 
system for the management of risk management, the 
•  Internal  Auditor,  appointed  by  the  Board  of 
Parent Company has defined their own system of internal 
Directors, has the task of verifying both continually 
controls and risk management, first of all, in relation 
and in relation to single necessities, the operation 
to the process of disseminating financial information, 
and suitability of the System of Internal Controls and 
based on the CoSO Framework model, consistent with 
Risk Management;
international best practice.The main characteristics of 
the system of internal controls and risk management  •  Executive Officer responsible for drawing up the 
are  represented,  on  one  hand  by  the  regulations  financial statements of the Company and other 
and procedures and, on the other, by the bodies for  Company documents is appointed by the Board 
governance  and  control.  The  regulations  are  mainly  of Directors and has, besides the responsibilities 
constituted by a series of general principles codified by  assigned to him jointly by the Executive Administrator 
the Ethics Code; and, in the second place, by a series of  in charge of the System of Internal Controls and Risk 
secondary procedures (like those in ex D. Lgs. 231/01,  Management, the responsibility of evaluating and 
L. 262/05, L. 81/09, internal regulations concerning the  monitoring the level of adequacy and efficiency of 
treatment of confidential information, operations with  the administrative and accounting internal controls 
related  parties,  internal  dealing,  etc.  which  make  it  system by conducting a preliminary investigation;
possible to act within the reality of the company and to  •  Supervising  body  in  compliance  with 
implement the above mentioned principles of a general  Organizational Model ex D. Lgs. 231/2001 has the 
nature. On the other hand, they conduct the control of  task of supervising the respect of the procedures set 
the observance of the rules and procedures on the basis  up by the Company, also in the area of the prevention 
of the competencies and functions defined and assigned  of corporate crimes.
50 51