Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
The  System  of  Internal  Controls  guarantees  the  monitored carefully the process for the selection of 
safeguarding  against  risks  related  to  the  pursuance  suppliers and the maintenance of their performance, 
of  strategic  and  operative  objectives,  reporting  and  by making specific visits to their offices in order to 
compliance,  both  in  the  Parent  Company  and  the  verify  their  capacity  to  satisfy  and  maintain  the 
subsidiaries which have adopted this approach.  qualitative requirements needed. .We are committed 
to the creation of a Ethics Code for Suppliers to 
Below is a list of the main risks that have been identified 
define  and  share  the  principles,  good  corporate 
that are inherent to sustainability issues:
and environmental practices and ethical behavior  
•  Risks related to ethical behavior: the risks that are 
and promote a supply chain that is increasingly 
related to a lack of integrity in the management or 
responsible and sustainable.
the employees of the Group, which might give rise 
•  Risks related to personnel: these risks are related 
to unethical behavior or acts that are not authorized, 
to the fact that the Group does not implement 
illegal or fraudulent, with particular reference to 
processes for the purpose of attracting, selecting, 
issues of active or passive corruption, corruption 
motivating  or  exploiting  human  resources  or 
of private individuals and human rights issues. To 
that  there  are  not  adequate  processes  intended 
reduce these risks for the Group we have adopted 
to  guarantee  the  respect  of  diversity  and  equal 
an Ethics Code to re-enforce the dissemination of a  opportunity. In relation to the quality management 
corporate culture that is founded on the importance  system (ISO 9001) used by the main manufacturing 
of  an  ethical  and  social  responsibility  in  the  companies, the issues related to the management 
conducting of business and company activities; the  of the employees is protected; the Parent Company, 
Parent Company and some of the Italian subsidiaries  moreover,  has  codified  the  procedures  for  the 
have  also  adopted  an  Organizational  Model  in  management of human resources and has profiled 
compliance with D.lgs 231/2001. Lastly, in 2019 the  the company functions with the identification of the 
Parent Company adopted an Anti-corruption Policy. responsibilities and skills that are required. In all of 
the companies, the training activities are defined 
•  Risks of reputation: because of the nature of the 
annually and, besides the obligatory training that 
sectors in which the Group operates, one of the major 
must be conducted, they register the curriculum 
risks that they face at a corporate level is related to 
requirements  of  the  company  staff.  The  Group, 
the quality and safety of our products and the chain  through a series of processes which, although they  Nations.  Moreover,  in  2019  the  Parent  Company 
of supply; any manufacturer's defects that might  moreover, has included in the Ethics Code their own  are not centralized and coordinated at the Group  adopted a Human Rights Policy and is committed 
commitment  to  respect  and  protect  the  dignity,  level, guarantee that in all the subsidiaries there are  to  the  formation  of  specific  training  course,  in 
occur could compromise the reliability and safety of 
diversity  and  equal  rights  of  its  employees  and  procedures related to the protection of health and  particular in those countries where the legislation is 
the final product. If we underestimate the attention 
collaborators. safety of the workers, at the time of their training. less stringent than in Italy.
of the clients and of the community in general, we 
•  Risks  related  to  compliance  with  the  •  Environmental risks: these risks are related to the 
could risk a loss of image and in our reputation,  •  Risks related to the respect of human rights: 
environmental and health and safety regulations:   possibility  of  causing  an  environmental  impact 
with a consequent drop in financial performance.  the risks are related to the respect of human rights 
these rules are connected , on one hand, to the  which  has  negative  repercussions  on  the  local 
The  Group  has  always  directed  particular  focus  which might undermine a correct and responsible 
possibility of new regulations for the protection of the  territory in which the Group operates, or else that 
on the quality and safety of the processes and the  management of the activities of the company. The 
environment and the possibility of non-conformity  inadequate measures have been taken to prevent 
products.  The  main  manufacturing  companies  risk is related in particular to the activities and to the 
with the environmental requirements stated in the  or reduce this impact. El.En. has always respected 
of the Group, in fact, adopted a system for quality  suppliers of the Group who operate in countries (for 
regulations and, on the other hand, the fact that the  environmental requirements in compliance with the 
example, those in Asia)  where the legislation in this 
control and have obtained an ISO 9001 certification,  Group does not implement processes that insure the  present legislation in force and in the Ethics Code of 
field is not so rigorous as it is in Italy. The protection 
while all of the companies that produce medical  safety and health of the workers and the possibility  the Group, it has repeated its commitment to protect 
of human rights is explicitly mentioned in the Ethics 
devices have obtained the ISO 13485 certification  of non-conformity with respect to the laws in this  the environment. The Italian companies that have 
Code of the Group, respect of which is required 
and operate rigorously in conformity with with the  adopted the Organizational Model in compliance 
field. In the Ethics Code, the Group has codified its 
regulations, as is demonstrated by the numerous  commitment to the protection of the environment  from  all  the  companies. The  Group  extends  the  with D. Lgs. 231/2001 have monitored these issues 
periodical, programmed and surprise inspections  and the health and safety of the workers. The Italian  application of its Ethics Code also to the suppliers  also within the Model. The Parent Company adopted 
and  explicit  reference  is  made  to  the  Universal  an Environmental Policy in 2019 to monitor and 
that  they  have  passed  every  year.  In  order  to  companies belong to the Group have monitored 
Declaration of Human Rights issued by the United  reduce the environmental impact of their activities.
guarantee maximum safety, moreover, as stated in  the issues related to the environment and health 
the Ethics Code, the Group establishes long-lasting  and safety also in relation to Organizational Model 
relationships with its suppliers that are based on  D.lgs 231/2001. In all of the companies, the issue 
principles of correctness and transparency and they  of health and safety Is managed and monitored 
52 53