Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
4 .  The manufacturing process
Thousands of Euros 31/12/2018 31/12/2019
Staff costs and general expenses 9,995 11,145
4.1 Research & Development as an instrument for 
Equipment 197 310
innovation 
Costs for testing and prototypes 5,404 2,783
The critical factors in the success of the El.En. Group are the adequacy of the range of  Consultancy fees 522 574
products which we offer and the capacity to innovate it continually in order to meet 
Other services 99 201
the requirements of the market and create new ones. 
Total costs R&D 16,218 15,014
119
  
6
  
PEOPLE INVOLVED 
RESEARCH IN RESEARCH AND 
CENTERS DEVELOPMENT 
The amount of the costs sustained corresponds to about  fat in various parts of the body by means of a 
4% of the sales volume of the Group. The expenses  non-invasive treatment (the ONDA system which 
sustained by El.En. S.p.A. are about 6% of its revenues. was released for sale in 2018; the technology was 
15  patented and during 2019 received FDA clearance).
MORE THAN 
The following list shows the main directives of medical  •  Preliminary study, development and planning of a 
€ MILIONS   research and development conducted by the Group:  multifunctional  platform  for  dermatological  and 
127
23 aesthetic  applications,  amplifying  the  range  of 
OF EUROS INVESTED IN RESEARCH  ACTIVE PATENTS AND   
AND DEVELOPMENT PENDING •  Development of new laser systems and improvement  accessories available (this is the LUXEA platform 
which received FDA clearance in 2019);
of  pre-existing  ones  with  emission  of  impulses 
•  Continuation of the studies undertaken in order 
with a duration in picoseconds, for dermatological 
to  confirm  the  anti-inflammatory  action,  the 
applications;
accelerated  healing  of  surgical  wounds,  the 
The position of the Group for hi-tech products and the  development according to mid- to long-term programs in  •  Preliminary  study,  development  and  planning 
analgesic effect as well as the improvement of the 
global competitive context in which it operates comports  order to prepare quickly and continuously products that  of  systems  that  integrate  and  improve  existing 
limbs thanks to the use of lasers in physical therapy.;
a continuous and significant effort in terms of research  are innovative in their performance and applications. laser applications for hair removal, as well as the 
•  Study, development and planning of systems based 
and development of new products and new technologies;  In our research activities conducted in our laboratories,  improvement of the related accessories and their 
on high-powered holmium technology as well as 
our strong point is the capacity to be single minded, to  as well as that made in collaboration with important  performance;
the technological renovation of the mid-powered 
•  Research activity and clinical experimentation of 
innovate considering the requirements of the doctor and  research centers, hospitals and universities, both at a  system for the treatment of urinary tract stones and 
the effects of laser application to biological tissues 
the patient in the medical sector rather than the client in  national and international level, we set no limits since we  benign hyperplasia of the prostate, as well as a new, 
including laboratory studies of biological samples 
the industrial sector, starting with every intuition which  are driven by the desire and the passion for everything  precise and innovative laser with combined wave 
and cellular cultures; experiments on laser emissions  length for surgical applications.
may arise from the close and constant observation of  that is new or can become new. The kind of research 
with wave lengths for which the theoretical models  •  Continuation of the development and innovation 
problems that have not yet been solved.   that is conducted is of the applied type for most of the 
promise particular effectiveness in the treatment of  activities in dermatology for the segment dedicated 
The skills that have been developed and the enthusiasm  activities  while it is theoretical for some specific subjects, 
some skin pathologies or in general, of the human  to  the  removal  of  tattoos  and  the  treatment  of 
of our staff are the real difference. The El.En Group and  usually related to activities regarding mid- to long-term 
body; cutaneous and dermatological lesions in general; 
the people who work there in fact, have a knowledge of  innovative objectives.  
•  Consolidation of the development of a new system  •  Development  of  systems  with  combined  LED 
physical, biomedical and technological phenomena that  The innovating capacity of the El.En. Group is demonstrated  based on microwaves as a highly effective form of  technologies  with  electro-stimulation  for  the 
has matured in over thirty years of experience, which  by the number of patents that the Group has obtained: in  energy for the reduction of the layer of subcutaneous  reduction of adipose layers.
has brought them to have an extraordinary capacity to  less than forty years of activity since its foundation 127 
improve their own know-how, to innovate the production  patents have been obtained and 23 are pending.
technologies, processes products and related services.  The chart below shows the expenses sustained by the 
The  Group  organizes  its  activity  of  research  and  Group during 2019 for research and development:
For further information on Research and Development of the Group, please consult the Annual Financial Report for December 31st 2019 which is 
available on the web site www.elengroup.com.
58 59