Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
In the industrial sector, the Group has conducted the  •  Continued improvement of the applicative processes  Project FOMEMI 
following activities: for sheet metal cutting intended to improve the 
Sensors and instruments using Photonic technology for 
effectiveness,  the  speed,  and  the  versatility  of 
•  Development  of  innovative  processes  for  pre- increasing thicknesses by means of an opportune  minimally invasive medicine
cutting and micro-perforation of labels by machine;
management of the high power available;
•  Development of software and algorithms for high-
•  Multi-disciplinary  experimentation  and  research 
speed advanced coding in the digital converting 
(electronics,  optics  and  fluid  dynamics)  for  the  El. En. is always at the forefront in the search for cutting-edge solutions to meet the needs of the 
sector;
purpose of optimizing the potential of the laser  market and the company is the leader in of a project that is co-financed by the Region of Tuscany. 
•  Increase in the maximum power of laser sources 
systems for flat cutting of sheet metal; The project is called FOMEMI, an acronym for FOtonica per MEdicina a Minima Invasività), and was 
in the radio-frequency range, maintaining a high 
level of beam quality and modulation; development  •  Improvement  of  the  performance  of  the  concluded in 2019. In collaboration with industrial partners with highly specialized technology 
of  innovative  applications  (for  example,  micro- galvanometric components of scanning systems; (Fabrica Machinale Srl, B.B. SpA) and qualified research institutions (University of Pisa, Scuola 
perforation of panels or special applications in the  •  Development of scanning systems for CO2 lasers and  Superiore Sant’Anna), El.En. studied new solutions which combine photonics, optics and ICT 
field of digital converting) which are possible with  fibers for the deglazing of copper conductors for the 
(acquisition and elaboration of images for diagnosis and minimally invasive therapies) in order to 
this technology. preparation of electric motors in the automotive sector.
contribute to the improvement of clinical practices in sectors having a strong social and economic 
impact.
BEST PRACTICE   During this project, they studied and developed laser technologies and devices for different 
clinical applications like the cornic pathologies of diabetic feet; removal of neoformations of the 
The El.En. S.p.A. approach in the medical sector
breast and brain, and treatment of benign hypertrophy of the prostate. We developed a high 
resolution vision system with multi-spectral lighting of images, even three-dimensional ones; with 
this instrument we intend to gather data during the evolution of the wound after the treatments, 
El.En. S.p.A. has reinforced the strategic functions of research and development for the purpose of 
on the size of the area of the lesion and the segmentation, even in interaction with the operator, 
maintaining their position of leadership in innovation in the field of medical lasers. The company 
in order to define the regions occupied by the various components present and typical of the 
has implemented a short term process to maximize the efficiency and effectiveness in the 
pathology, and record the evolution over time during the various therapy sessions.
development of new products by reducing to the greatest extent possible the “time to market” 
without compromising the level of quality and reliability.
We have concentrated our resources on projects in the areas in which we have the greatest  ASACampus
experience and focused on our core technologies. 
 
Specific skills have also been developed in other technologies like, for example, the sector of body 
contouring where we have for the first time applied microwave technology. For this application  The subsidiary company of the Group, ASA S.r.l. has always been 
and for the rapidly growing aesthetics market in general, new products and new applicative  involved  in  research  and  development  of  their  systems.  Their 
approaches are constantly required.  laboratory which is called ASA Campus, was created in 2007 from the 
cooperation between ASA Laser and the Department of Experimental 
The mid- to long-term goal is to achieve substantial innovations which will allow El.En. to increase 
and Clinical Biomedical Sciences of the University of Florence. This 
their competitive edge on the market by presenting break-through products, consolidate their 
market percentage and open new niches both in the aesthetic and surgical sectors. By focusing  laboratory makes it possible to test the validity of the work of the 
attention  on  the  new  needs  of  the  market  we  are  improving  and  developing  applicative  company and to improve their performance over time. The results 
technologies and techniques for the so-called "Cool Peel", a minimally invasive dermatological  of the research are used for advancement in the development of technical instruments 
treatment which is increasingly requested for rejuvenation applications.  and therapeutic procedures and spread by means of symposiums thanks to the important 
partnerships, and published in numerous scientific journals; many of these studies have 
There  are  three  main  lines  of  technological  innovation:  first  of  all,  the  implementation  of 
already been published in international magazines and others are now in press.
technological innovations in the field of photonics like the diode sources, laser sources in fiber, 
and ultrafast laser sources (picoseconds and femtoseconds), to optimize the radiation-tissue 
The medical devices for laser therapy and magnetotherapy are built according to technological 
interaction effectively and safely.
content  and  essential  functional  requirements:  advanced  technology  and  software, 
Secondly, new, specific tissue cooling systems to reduce collateral effects to the minimum,  effectiveness and safety, ergonomics and design. They make it possible to apply healing 
including pain and inflammation after treatment, and which will, at the same time reduce the  methods that are increasingly targeted and personalized. The effectiveness of the therapies 
duration of the procedure.  is continually tested thanks to the research conducted by ASA Campus on the technological 
Thirdly, the implementation and use of the most sophisticated diagnostic systems which will make  innovations in laser therapy and magnetotherapy and on the mechanisms of the action at 
it possible to determine the end point of the treatments in the most reliable way and guarantee  the level of cells and tissue, the results of which are continually transmitted to the clinical 
improved effectiveness in conditions of maximum safety for the patient.  applications.
60 61