Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
4.2 Quality and safety of our products 
Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA)
 
TGA will use an MDSAP audit report as part of the evidence that is assessed in compliance with 
Medical Device market authorisation requirements, unless the Medical Device is otherwise 
excluded or exempted from these requirements, or if current policy restricts the use of MDSAP 
The Group is aware that the complexity of its business requires high qualitative 
audit reports.
standards and for this reason the commitment that we have and we promote for the 
quality and safety of our products is essential in order to guarantee continued growth 
The Brazilian National Health Surveillance Agency ANVISA  
and success. We have always focused on the phases of design and development 
(Agẽncia Nacional de Vigilãncia Sanitaria)
of our systems; in fact, our value is created through the study and application of  ANVISA will utilise the outcomes of the program, including the reports, to constitute an 
important input on ANVISA’s pre-market and post-market assessment procedures, providing, 
methods that are increasingly selective, effective and safe. when applicable, key information that are expected to support the regulatory technical 
evaluation on these issues.
Every day we are committed to supplying products of  •  ISO  13485  relative  to  quality  control  systems  for 
value to our clients in such a way as to create loyalty that  medical devices 
Health Canada (HC)
is based on quality, reliability and safety and to guarantee  •  European directive MDD93/42/EEC (Medical Devices  Health Canada will use the MDSAP audit as part of its Canadian Medical Device Conformity 
Assessment System program. After the successful conclusion of the pilot phase of the program, 
these requirements for the product are recognized and  Directive);
the goal of Health Canada is to implement the MDSAP as a basic tool for achieving regulatory 
appreciated and that every measure be adopted to make  compliance of the Quality Management System in Canada.
•  National laws of the countries that are members of 
sure that they are in conformity with the law.
EU and the non-European countries like the  United 
To this purpose, some companies of the Group have  States of America(21CFR820/803/806), Japan, China  In a highly competitive environment like that of the  that they can keep the products updated with respect to 
equipped themselves with  an Integrated Management  (CCC- Certification for electronic components and  medical industry, the competence of the experts working  the legislation, obtain and manage the certifications of 
System Manual which is in compliance with TUSSL n. 81  Enterprise standard “CNC laser cutting machine”) and  in  the  sector  of  Regulatory  Affairs  is  of  significant  the product, and guarantee the continual maintenance 
of 2008, to describe the objectives and the policies of the  Brazil. economic importance for the companies, especially when  of conformity by acting as an intermediary between the 
these latter are pursuing goals of internationalization in 
Management System for Quality and the ways in which  requirements of the authorities and the needs expressed 
El.En.  S.p.A.,  Deka  Mela  S.r.l.,  Quanta  System  S.p.A.,  their marketing strategy. At the companies of the El.En. 
it should be applied. The manual defines the general  by all of the functional areas of the company, following 
Asclepion GmbH and ASA S.r.l. in February 2020) obtained  Group that operate in the medical sector the Regulatory 
the  bureaucratic  procedure  and  making  themselves 
criteria needed to satisfy the requirements for safety and  function registers the compliance to the requirements 
the MDSAP (Medical Device Single Audit Program) 
available in case that further documents or clarifications 
performance of products during their entire life cycle, as  of the government institutions which protect the public 
certification. This certification allows institutions that are  are requested by the institutions. 
well as the services supplied. health and monitor the safety and effectiveness of the 
recognized and accredited by the Regulatory Authorities  products produced in this sector. The companies that  The Regulatory Activity requires the presence of people 
El.En. S.p.A., Deka M.E.L.A. S.r.l., Quanta System S.p.A., 
of  the  five  member  countries  (U.S.A.,  Canada,  Brazil,  manufacture  medical  devices  guarantee  that  their  with  different  skills,  possibly  with  different  technical, 
ASA S.r.l. and Asclepion GmbH also use a Quality Policy 
Japan and Australia) to conduct a single audit at the  products are in compliance with all of the regulations  scientific  and  administrative  experience  as  well  as  a 
which guarantees the conformity of the activities to the  manufacturers of medical devices in order to verify that  relating to safety.  knowledge of different languages because it is necessary 
regulations of the institutions in the country in which  these latter meet the requirements of the quality system  For this reason it is strategic for the company to equip  to know not only the national regulations but those of 
they operate.  itself with an office specialized in Regulatory Affairs so  other European and extra-European countries.
of the particular country. The objective of MDSAP is to 
Depending on the geographic area in which they are  develop, manage and supervise a single audit program 
located and the type of business they run, the different  which will make it possible to carry out a single regulatory 
companies of the Group comply with the standards and  verification at the factories manufacturing medical devices, 
regulations shown below. conducted by a recognized institution MDSAP, which will  Our  products  and  our  quality 
•  ISO 9001; satisfy the requirements of many different jurisdictions. systems  are  certified  by  the 
43 most  important  institutions  at  a 
US Food and Drug Administration, Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH) EMPLOYEES WORKING IN  world  level  that  are  responsible 
FDA will accept the MDSAP audit reports as a substitute for FDA routine inspections. Inspections  QUALITY CONTROL for  supervising  the  safety  and 
conducted “for cause” or “compliance follow-up” by FDA will not be affected by this program. 
effectiveness, above all, of medical 
Moreover, MDSAP will not apply to any necessary pre-approval or post-approval inspections for 
the Pre Market Approval or PMA applications. devices. Our companies periodically 
14
receive inspections for the renewal 
EMPLOYEES WORKING IN  of  the  certificates  they  possess, 
REGULATORY ACTIVITY and  which  are  indispensable  for 
Japan Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare
exporting our products abroad.
The Japanese Medical Health Labor Welfare (MHLW) and the Pharmaceutical Medical Device 
Agency (PMDA) are active and observant official participants in the board of regulators of the 
pilot project and as subject matter experts in different expert groups.
62 63