Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
4.3 The supply chain
Company Certification
•  ISO 9001:2015; In the Group there are manufacturing companies that  or it may be outsourced. Purchases of supplies are mainly 
•  ISO 13485:2016; serve the medical and industrial sectors and marketing  related to components and accessories for manufacturing 
ASA S.r.l.
•  European directive MDD93/42/EEC medical devices;
companies that serve the medical market. The medical  (technical  accessories,  critical  components,  industrial 
•  MDSAP 13485:2016 (february 2020).
companies  distribute  their  products  to  qualified  accessories,  etc).  The  other  categories  of  purchases 
•  ISO 9001:2015;
distributors,  directly  to  the  end-user  (medical  clinics,  may  include  office  supplies,  software,  and  computer 
•  ISO 13485:2016;
El.En S.p.A. e Deka  M.E.L.A.  S.r.l. doctors, etc) and also through OEM partners, while the  supplies and packaging for shipments. As far as services 
•  European directive MDD93/42/EEC medical devices;
industrial companies operate on the market mainly by  are concerned, the companies of the Group use outside 
•  MDSAP 13485:2016.
selling directly to the end-users.  suppliers for computer assistance, technical maintenance, 
•  ISO 9001:2015;
Penta Chutian Laser (Wuhan) Co. Ltd  •  ISO 14001 (solo per Penta Laser Equipment Wenzhou Co. Ltd); The specifications of the components of our systems are  scientific laboratory services and certifying institutions, 
e Penta Laser Equipment Wenzhou Co. Ltd •  CCC certification for electronic components (only for Penta  established by our technical offices and, on the basis  companies for the disposal of special waste, for publicity 
Laser Equipment Wenzhou Co. Ltd) of our rigorous requirements, the components may be  and marketing, financial services and shipping agents. 
•  ISO 9001:2015; produced  internally,  manufactures  according  to  our  We frequently also use services that are inherent to 
•  ISO 13485:2016; specifications  by  qualified  suppliers  or  bought  from  research and development by hiring highly qualified 
Quanta System S.p.A.
•  European directive MDD93/42/EEC medical devices; catalogs. The simplest phases of assembly and work on  professionals. 
•  MDSAP 13485:2016.
the components may be conducted either in our factory  During 2019 at a consolidated level the amount of spent 
•  ISO 9001:2015;
for purchases was 225,2 milion euros while the amount 
•  ISO 13485:2016;
Asclepion Laser Technologies GmbH spent for outsourcing was 13,3 milions euros.
•  European directive MDD93/42/EEC medical devices;
•  MDSAP 13485:2016. he supply chain is essential in order to maintain a high 
standard of quality in the finished product and, in general, 
•  ACIB - Centro Empresarial de Blumenau;
in the entire production process. The final objective is 
•  ABIMAQ (National Association of Machine Industries); RAW  SEMI FINISHED 
MATERIAL  GOODS that of establishing a long-lasting relationship that is 
Cutlite do Brasil •  INDAC (Instituto Nacional para Desenvolvimento de Acrilico - 
National Institution for Development of Acrylic); characterized  by  transparency  and  cooperation.  The 
•  Conselho Regional de Engenharia. e Agronomia de sc suppliers  must  meet  the  minimum  requirements  for 
safety, quality and financial stability in order to minimize 
the risk of potential interruptions in the supply and 
The companies comply with the regulations of the Japanese 
unexpected costs. We continually conduct preventive 
Ministry of health, labor and welfare. In order to import and sell 
machinery in Japan, companies must have a selling permit and  analysis and evaluations in order to understand the 
Deka Japan Co. Ltd e With US Co. Ltd the type of product imported must be approved in advance. The  SHIPPING PRODUCTION market trends and monitor the evolution of the present 
selling permit must be renewed every five years  and the permit 
suppliers  and  the  potential  ones,  their  technical  up-
for marketing of the machine is renewed for from one to five years 
dating and the regulations for the sector even in relation 
depending on the type of risk it represents. 
to the marketing of the products they sell to us. 
The  Group  operates  according  to  standards  of  fair 
competition  and  honesty,  legality  and  correctness 
while respecting the legitimate interest of all of the 
The  Group  is  committed  to  achieving  a  continuous  effective and efficient working methods. Moreover, we  DISTRIBUTION
PACKING
stakeholders. the Ethics Code of the Group contains 
improvement  in  the  quality  of  its  products  and  are tending more towards a Quality Policy that is oriented 
services through the motivation and involvement  to a  risk management system as an instrument for  all of the principles and rules that all of those who are 
of  its  staff;  these  objective  is  pursued  through  the  evaluation and decision making, with an aim to pursuing  in contact with the Company are required to follow. In 
optimization  of  the  corporate  processes,  according  a continual improvement through opportune corrective 
the contracts for the sale of critical components that 
to  criteria  of  efficiency  and  univocal,  homogeneous,  and preventive measures.
are underwritten by El.En. S.p.A., the other party must 
declare that they have received a copy of the Ethics Code 
AFTER SALES  and that they accept it. 
INSTALLATION SERVICE 
  In relation to this, the suppliers are asked to meet certain 
requirements:
64 65