Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
•  Financial soundness; situation of non-conformity, like a decline in the quality of 
•  Experience in the sector; the product or services.
As indicated in the Sustainability Plan, during the process 
•  Reliability;
for the qualification and approval of a supplier, we have  The El.En. Group and its international awards
•  Technical and planning resources and capacity;
included  the  evaluation  of  some  aspects  related  to 
•  Manufacturing capacity;
sustainability issues so that they can be used as evaluation 
•  Use of systems for the control of the quality and  parameters  and  contribute  to  the  overall  evaluation 
Passion, ability and tenacity have allowed the El.En. Group to achieve outstanding results at an 
safety of the products, consistent with the requests  of the potential supplier. The new qualification criteria 
of the Group. were elaborated and inserted in 2019 and will be in force  international level. This year a system developed by Deka, the Luxea, received the Aesthetic 
starting in 2020.
In the selection process and in their relations with the  Industry Award 2019 as the best new technology. 
suppliers, the Group evaluates, consistent with the internal 
Luxea is a multi-functional technology with fourteen different handpieces: pulsating light, 
procedures  and  the  company  program,  the  economic 
laser and radio frequency for a wide range of aesthetic and dermatological applications like 
benefits in reference to the objectives of solvency and long 
term profitability, as well as the presence on the market, the  vascular and pigmented lesions, acne, anti-aging, skin spots and blemishes and also tattoos 
technical capacity and the reliability of the persons involved. and hair removal. The Luxea platform was also awarded as Best Laser, Lights & Energy-based 
In particular, for the manufacturing companies of the Group 
Device 2019 at the Aesthetic & Anti-Aging Medicine World symposium in Montecarlo.
the selection of the suppliers follows a precise procedure 
In 2018 another system developed by Deka, Onda, a, received the 
of qualification and approval to guarantee the quality 
of  the  product  and  the  respect  of  the  delivery  times.  Aesthetic  Industry  Award  2018  as  the  best  new 
According to this procedure, using a "Supplier Qualification 
technology  and  at  the  Aesthetic  &  Anti-Aging 
Request Form" we evaluate the general level of the Quality 
Medicine  World  symposium  at  Montecarlo,  the 
Control System of the supplier, with an aim to constantly 
improve the aspects which influence the quality of the  award for the best non-invasive technology for 
product or the service which we are buying; for purchases  body shaping 2018. ONDA is the first microwave 
of merchandise we also make trial orders which allow us to 
system (CoolwavesTM) which acts simultaneously 
conduct inspections directly on the product.
and non-invasively on imperfections like cellulitis, 
For products and services of a certain kind, like the services 
localized fat deposits, and skin laxity.
offered by testing laboratories, the qualifying procedure and 
approval is based mainly on the analysis of the certifications  Also in 2018, the Thunder MT laser, developed 
that the supplier possesses, because the authority of the 
by Quanta System, received an award as the best 
certifications  and of the institutions that have issued them 
device for hair removal and vascular treatments; 
are a guarantee of reliability. Occasionally we also conduct 
its  innovative  technology  makes  it  possible  to 
audits at the supplier's; at the end of the analysis, on the 
basis of the results of all the tests that have been run, the  combine two laser sources (Alex e Nd:YAG) for hair 
supplier will either be included or excluded if his quality 
removal in all seasons and all skin types, as well as for 
level is found to be insufficient. 
vascular treatments and photo-rejuvenation.
Once the supplier has been judged to be suitable from 
In 2017 another system developed by Quanta System, the 
a  qualitative  point  of  view,  periodic  inspections  are 
programmed to make sure that the standards of quality  Discovery Pico, had received the Aesthetic Industry Award 
required have been maintained: these evaluations take  2017 as best "multi-use" technology, since it was considered 
into  consideration  aspects  such  as  flexibility  of  the 
the  most  powerful  picosecond  laser  for  the  treatment  of 
supplier, i.e. his capacity to adapt to the requirements 
tattoos, pigmented lesions and skin rejuvenation.
of the organization, the speed of response to and the 
management of contingencies, the organizational structure 
and punctuality of deliveries as well as the evaluation of 
the merchandise delivered. Annual inspections are also 
conducted at some supplier's by specially trained internal 
auditors, both routinely  or on account of an anomalous 
66 67