Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
5.   Our business
5.1 Uses and benefits of lasers in the medical sector  
The use of our medical and aesthetic lasers and the continued commitment we 
dedicate to research and development of new or improved applications generates 
a series of indirect social impacts which are transformed into benefits both for the 
patient and for the local community.
With our laser systems for the medical and aesthetic field  most  effective  non-surgical  and  non-pharmacological 
we have placed at the disposal of the market instruments  solution to prevent and to treat vaginal atrophy and its 
and solutions which improve the welfare of people and  consequences: lack of nourishment and hydration of 
the quality of life of patients by reducing health issues of  the cells of the vaginal mucous in fact comport dryness, 
both a physical and aesthetic nature, and the those of a  burning and discomfort and negatively influence the 
psychological nature associated with them. The laser is,  relations  and  the  self-esteem  of  the  patients,  both 
in fact, a device which, thanks to its inherent selectivity  when the symptoms are due to genital and urological 
treats the pathologies by maximizing the effectiveness  issues typical of natural menopause or induced after 
of the interaction and minimizing the collateral effects of  oncological therapies as well as those due to post-partum 
the treatments. ipoestrogenization.
If we consider, for example, the surgical sector, the  The elimination of major imperfections like hirsutism, 
equipment  that  has  been  conceived  and  developed  angiomas,  acne,  rosacea,  psoriasis,  large  scars  ,  etc.) 
by  the  Group  for  minimally  invasive  surgery  has  using our laser devices has made it possible for many 
brought about an improvement in the quality of life for  people, both on a family surrounding and in society, in 
the patients in terms of a greater recovery of healthy  childhood as well as adulthood, to find a harmonious  selectively dries up the blood component which then  and managerial resources to the development of devices 
tissue , less risk because of the reduction or elimination  balance of acceptance and dignity from other members  slowly deflates until it has completely disappeared. Also  to be used for aesthetic medicine, for skin rejuvenation 
of local anesthetics and a reduction in post-operative  of the community. Besides being pathologies that are  in the case of skin discolorations, besides having an  of the face through anti-wrinkle treatments and removal 
recovery time,  since the sutures are reduced. The types  often uncomfortable or painful, for many people living  important preventive action, the use of the laser makes  of skin discolorations (age spots, etc) to improve the 
of operations which can performed with lasers, in fact, do  with a part of their body, especially a highly visible one,  it possible to save the skin from the aggressiveness  skin appearance or obtain facial firming, rather than the 
not require incisions or the use of scalpels, and the laser  that is affected by apparent imperfections can also have  of the acids that are traditionally used and to solve  modeling of the body or hair removal.
beam can be directed remotely using sub-millimetric  important  psychological  repercussions.  Some  lesions  one problem without creating another. In the case of  In order to meet the different requirements of patients, 
optical fibers which offer greater facility of use to the  create strong emotional reactions in the people that  superficial  discolorations  the  laser  strikes  selectively 
the El.En. Group has created numerous types of lasers 
medical personnel.  are affected and create difficulty for them in personal  without destroying the surrounding tissue while, with 
in order to treat effectively is wide variety of issues 
Our  systems  offer  enormous  advantages  and  relations because they do not feel at ease with their own  traditional techniques the discoloration was eliminated  related to the rejuvenation of the skin with emissions 
improvements for the welfare of the patients also in the  body or suffer from depression because they are not  by controlled abrasion of the skin used along with acid  characterized by wave length, duration of impulse and 
dermatological surgery sector where, if we consider, for  able to accept the imperfections and consider them an  substances. The  situation  is  different  for  deep  spots  different levels of power. With laser treatments the most 
example, skin surgery applied to mucous, the laser has  insurmountable problem. Thanks to laser technology,  where the laser is the only technique available.   immediate benefit is the reduction of the recovery time 
revolutionized the traditional approach by vaporizing  these pathologies or imperfections can be treated in  The quality of life is influenced also by the aesthetic  for the patient respect to traditional aesthetic surgery; as 
rather than cutting the tissues and in this way eliminating  a manner that is effective, painless, non-invasive and  image that people have of themselves even when no  far as the general mid-term effectiveness is concerned, 
only the existing cutaneous lesion and saving the tissue  increasingly economical.   pathological imperfections are present. This fact is the  the  laser  creates  controlled  micro-lesions  which 
surrounding the lesion, all of which takes place without  The improvements in the welfare of the patients are  reason that there are so many request for aesthetic and  stimulate the organism to produce new tissue and, in this 
bleeding due to the cauterizing effect of the laser. The  evident  also  for  vascular  anomalies  like  infantile  or  medical treatments from a population that increasingly  way, the intrinsic potential of the body, and triggering a 
laser treatments make it possible to avoid deep cuts  congenital  angiomas:  besides  being  highly  visible,  wishes to improve their appearance; in today's society  natural and gradual rejuvenation. The impact of these 
in the skin and the advantage of this is represented by  these imperfections can disturb the normal functioning  the aesthetic image plays and increasingly important  treatments from a psychological point of view is very 
the fact that no scaring of loss of elasticity in the skin  of  a person or cause discomfort; the laser represents a  role and if you are not able to come close to the common  positive because people do not perceive the change 
occurs;  this is an important advantage, especially in the  valid alternative to the pharmacological therapies with  standards your dissatisfaction with yourself increases.  immediately but day after day and they gradually get use 
more delicate parts of the body. In the last few years, it  respect to which it also has the advantage of preserving  Over the years the Group has dedicated growing financial  to their new appearance. 
has been demonstrated that laser treatments are the  the integrity of the tissues; in fact the laser treatment 
70 71