Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
5.3 The conservation of the World's Artistic Heritage
 
The beauty of works of art is our legacy for future generations and it is our duty to 
preserve it for them. We are proud to be the first company in the world to produce 
laser created specifically for the restoration of works of art using the same technology 
used for medicine and surgery. Whether we are dealing with works of art or with 
medicine, the principle is the same: taking care of people, our works of art.
One of the flagship products made by the El.En. Group  of Europe; in particular we wish to mention the most 
is  represented  by  the  small  segment  of  restoration;  important ones where El.En. lasers were used: the Milan 
over the years the sensitivity of the Group towards the  Cathedral,  the  Florence  Cathedral,  Ghiberti’s  north 
conservation of works of art has continued to grow and  door and Door of Paradise on the Baptistery of St. John 
has inspired research aimed at making the most advanced  in Florence, the sculptural group with the Rape of the 
conservation technologies available for the restoration of  Sabine Women by Giambologna in Piazza della Signoria 
artistic masterpieces all over the world.  The Group has  in  Florence,  the  bas-reliefs  of  the  Holy  Sepulcher  in 
continued to experiment with new technologies that  Jerusalem, the cloister of the Cathedral of Oviedo, the 
can offer conservation processes that are increasingly  Leaning Tower and the Cathedral of Pisa.
effective and respectful of the works of art.
In fact, lasers offer a solution which is effective, reliable  Some of the most important examples of restoration 
and safe for the conservation of the world's cultural  work conducted with our lasers in 2019 are listed below: 
heritage and give new life to the masterpieces that  •  The removal of writing and graffiti on Ponte Vecchio 
have left an indelible mark on the history of humanity.  in Florence with a laser donated by the El.En. Group 
Restoration with lasers respects the original surface and 
last year to the "Gli angeli del Bello" (Angels of 
the texture of the art work because, by using a non-
Beauty), an association of volunteers whose mission 
invasive  procedure  respecting  the  original  structure 
is to keep the city of Florence clean and bring the 
of the work this method makes it possible to remove 
monuments back to their original splendor. 
the patina that has formed over the centuries so that 
•  The removal of grime on the walls of the Sala delle 
the public can admire the works of art restored to their 
Asse  in  the  Castello  Sforzesco  in  Milan  which 
original state.   
brought to light Leonardo da Vinci’s monochrome 
Laser  solutions  offer  restorers  a  highly  technological  fresco by using a laser technology to remove the 
instrument which allows them to operate with complete 
layers of lime paint;
safety  with  significant  advantages  with  respect  to 
•  On the occasion of the exhibition “Verrocchio, il 
mechanical and chemical methods commonly used. First 
maestro  di  Leonardo”  held  in  Palazzo  Strozzi  in 
of all, the method is minimally invasive because there is 
Florence, they displayed Verrocchio’s David which 
no physical contact with the surface on which they are 
had been cleaned with a laser to reveal the thin layer 
working and this allows them to operate on surfaces that 
of gold which Verrocchio had applied to the sandals, 
are extremely fragile or altered. The high level of control 
the trim of the tunic, the hair and even the pupils of 
allows the restorer to define the degree of cleaning that 
the eyes of the David;
he wishes to achieve (a high selectivity because the 
layers to be removed are very dark and therefore absorb  •  During  restoration  of  the  north  façade  of  the 
a high percentage of laser light) and the operation is  Cathedral of Santa Maria del Fiore in Florence, 
very precise because it is possible to define the exact  lasers were used to clean some of the detailing; 
area in which one wishes to work without affecting the  •  The South door of the Baptistery in Florence by 
surrounding area.  Andrea Pisano was completely cleaned and can now 
Lasers  have  been  used  successfully  on  numerous  be admired in all of its renewed splendor in the Sala 
monuments and works of art both in Italy and the rest  del Paradiso in the Museo dell'Opera del Duomo.
74 75