Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
A laser for the 5G
5.4 Our support to the community 
“The Group wishes to confirm its position not only as a valid point of reference for its  For the first time in Italy, a surgical operation using El.En. lasers was performed remotely using 
own shareholders and stakeholders, but also as a pillar of the community. At El.En.  the 5G network. This experiment was conducted on the stage of the Vodafone Village in Milan, 
every day we are committed to making our work have a positive impact on the  where Professor Matteo Trimarchi, otorhinolaryngoiatrist of the IRCCS San Raffaele, operated 
on a synthetic larynx which was in an operating room 15 kilometers away. The operation was 
health of people. Our social strategy is that of making available our skills, knowledge 
a success and represented a real revolution for the possibility of operating from one continent 
and instruments with an aim to improving the access to treatment and health care 
to another in the future. 
for fragile and disadvantaged people all over the world. At the same time we are 
This operation was part of the 5G Healthcare - Vodafone Conference & Experience Day, which 
working to improve scientific knowledge. In other words, we are working for science 
had been organized by Vodafone to summarize the progress made in 5G experiments. This 
and for healthier world.”. (Ing. Salvadeo - General Director of El.En.)
event demonstrated the potential of 5G for the community and highlighted the precision and 
reliability of the El.En. lasers.
One  of  the  ways  in  which  we  fulfill  our  social  Hospital and the Meyer Pediatric Hospital in Florence, the 
responsibilities  is  by  donations  to  specific  non-profit  Moshi Medical Center in Tanzania, the Pediatric Hospital 
of  Bambin Gesù and the Gemelli Hospital in Rome and 
organizations,  institutions  and  cutting-edge  scientific 
also hospitals in Latin America.
laboratories all over the world by assisting them in the use 
Donations of our lasers have also been made to the 
of new technologies that have been placed at the service 
Vatican for the restoration of marble sculptures, busts, 
of the health of patients as well as for the conservation 
statues and fountains as well as paintings, and to some 
and restoration of works of art. Over the years we have  foreign museums like the Metropolitan in New York and 
donated our systems to numerous hospitals like Careggi  the Getty Museum in Los Angeles. 
New laser technology for rehabilitation medicine
In 2019 our subsidiary Quanta System S.p.A. donated an “Opera EVO” laser to the Valduce 
"The best is yet to come"
hospital; this laser represents a state-of-the-art system with thulium radiation for the treatment 
of patients with serious disabilities like severe spasticity and deforming contractures of the 
lower limbs due to cerebral lesions caused by strokes or head injury, traumatic spinal cord 
In early 2019 Professor Gérard Mourou, Nobel Prize for physics in 2018, visited Quanta System 
injury and other neurodegenerative diseases which can be treated thanks to minimally 
S.p.A.. Professor Mourou received the Nobel for his pioneering research in the field of laser 
invasive laser procedures. For the first time in the world it has been possible to intervene with 
physics which paved the way for many scientific and medical applications. His intuitions have 
a minimally invasive approach using a local anesthetic and surgical procedures which, in the 
been an inspiration for the employees, physicists and engineers working in research and 
past required complex open surgical operations with total anesthesia. This new technology 
development in the El.En. Group. During his visit at Quanta System, Prof. Mourou reminded 
contributes to restoring dignity and quality of life to patients with highly debilitating diseases.
us that all of his studies were inspired by the desire to improve society and the lives of people; 
Filippo Fagnani, Scientific Director of the surgical division of Quanta System stated: "The 
this approach totally reflects the philosophy of the El.En. Group, which is involved every day 
results obtained are the outcome of the intuitions of the professionals at the Villa Beretta – 
in supplying professionals with solutions that are aimed at improving the quality of life of 
Valduce Hospital combined with the support that we have had the honor of offering on the 
people. 
technological front. Together, working in complete synergy, we have opened frontiers that 
The motto of the professor is: “The best is yet to come”. “Scientific research and applied 
previously could not even be imagined and achieved goals which represent new standards 
industrial research will find more innovative applications for laser technology from which we 
at a global level”. 
can all benefit either directly or indirectly”. 
"Collaboration with great scientific organizations, research and health institutions is 
Professor Mourou’s visit represents a significant sign of recognition for the El.En. Group for the 
part of our DNA and for us it represents a concrete and daily commitment. We work 
contribution made to science and to medicine and confirms the position of leadership of the 
together with our partners in the medical sector both in Italy and abroad, on research 
company in research and production of laser technology.
projects in order to bring the hope of a cure and to boost medical progress".  
76 77