Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
Two lasers for the Uffizi Galleries in Florence A laser for UNESCO
El.En. donated two lasers to the Uffizi Galleries in Florence. The lasers will be used to restore  A laser manufactured by the El.En. Group was selected for the restoration of the Temple of 
works of art, in particular the statues in the Boboli Gardens and the paintings in the Galleries.  Mut, a UNESCO heritage site in Sudan which was built in the first half of the 7th century 
The lasers that will be at the Uffizi are the “Thunder Compact” by Quanta System S.p.A.  B.C. Thanks to the use of this laser they are uncovering and returning to their original 
(subsidiary of the El.En. Group), which is used to clean stone materials (marble, stucco, bas-
beauty the wall paintings which had been severely damaged.
reliefs) and the  “Light Brush“ by El.En./Deka, with erbium technology, which is used to restore 
paintings and frescoes.
 “Resurrect beauty wherever it is and give it to the future generations - - Paolo Salvadeo, 
General Director of El.En. has said. – That is what we are here for. We are particularly honored  Lasers for MotoGP and SBK
that (the director of the Uffizi Galleries) Eike Schmidt has accepted our donation. This is a 
further confirmation of his sensitivity towards art which is a universal heritage which we 
have the duty of protecting, passing on to posterity the great message of beauty and  The Mobile Clinic in the world is the travelling hospital 
love that the great artists of the past have left for us”.  which follows the  MotoGP and SBK and is placed at the 
disposal of pilots and their staff. This special “house” is the 
“One of our greatest concerns has always been the protection of our artistic heritage Schmidt 
place where pilots are assisted before, during and after the races and rehabilitate him; the 
said, and we are glad to accept this donation because with the El.En. lasers we have instruments 
therapeutic solutions offered are a concrete help in solving the various health problems which 
for the conservation of works of art which will allow us to intervene without affecting their 
often afflict pilots.  The long-standing partnership between ASA and the Mobile Clinic in the 
integrity while enhancing their beauty. Moreover, this collaboration makes us particularly 
World makes it possible for pilots to effectively treat sports injuries thanks to the Hilterapia®. 
proud because it is based on Italian technology, actually Florentine technology, which is 
recognized and exported all over the world”. The physical therapists at the Mobile Clinic have been using this specific therapy for many 
years with two lasers supplied by ASA S.r.l., which help, in particular, in the repair of tissues, 
in the improvement in circulation which has been compromised by traumas, and in obtaining 
a beneficial effect for muscle and tendon injuries. 
78 79