Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
The main types of training courses promoted by the Group  they make a note of the specific issues which need to be  6.2 Health and safety in the workplace
in 2019 were the following: dealt with and, in some of the companies, the employees     
•  Training on health and safety issues, related to  may request to participate in specific training courses to 
learning and up-dating of the regulations required  enrich and personalize their curriculum. We are committed to guaranteeing a workplace that is healthy and safe in conformity 
by the law and/or the company in relation to health  In order to promote a greater sense of responsibility in  with the laws and regulations regarding the safety of workers and of the environment. 
and safety in the workplace. all of the employees, this year the Parent Company and 
Our objective is that of disseminating and developing among people the awareness 
•  Training related to specific issues of the quality  some of the subsidiaries have organized training and 
of the risks related to the work they are doing and to promote responsible behavior 
control  system  in  order  to  learn  the  operative  information activities on the Organizational Model and 
procedures  necessary  in  every  phase  of  the  on the administrative responsibilities of legal persons  on the part of all the workers with programs that are intended to prevent damage 
production process; in conformity with ex D.Lgs. 231, as well as on the issues  to people.
related to sustainability and the relative Sustainability Plan 
•  Technical and specialist training to increase the 
of the El.En. Group.
skills necessary to carry out the task that has been 
assigned; Despite the fact that at this time in the Group there is 
•  Linguistic training in order to increase the linguistic  no training activity related to Human Rights, in 2019 the 
skills of the resources involved;  Group adopted a Human Rights Policy and is committed 
to the spread and application of the Ethics Code which  MORE THAN  2.000  HOURS OF SPECIFIC TRAINING ON HEALTH AND SAFETY ISSUES
•  Computer training in order to acquire the skills 
contains  the  principles  of  legality,  loyalty,  correctness, 
necessary to be competent in the use of computers 
transparency and professionalism to which every person 
(for example, knowledge of some types of software);
in the Group must adhere; in the main Italian companies 
•  Training for newly hired employees;
the Ethics Code is given to all new employees as soon 
•  On the job training usually conducted for a specific 
period in the company by other qualified employees. as they are hired as part of the required documentation  47%  THE DECREASE OF THE INJURY RATE COMPARED TO 2018
whereas  at  the  subsidiaries  Asclepion  GmbH,  Quanta 
Although  the  training  courses  are  not  centrally  System S.p.A. and the Chinese subsidiaries a special focus 
coordinated they are defined annually by each company  on the Ethics Code is part of the training session for new 
and besides the obligatory training that must be offered,  employees. 
As stated in the Ethics Code, the El.En. Group is committed  which, although they are not centralized and coordinated 
to the dissemination and consolidation of a culture of  at a Group level, guarantee in each subsidiary that there 
safety by promoting responsible behavior on the part  are procedures related to the protection of the health 
ASA: a case study for the Strategy  of all of its collaborators. For this purpose the Group is  and safety of the workers and the implementation of 
committed to: actions for their correction or improvement.
Innovation Master at Ca' Foscari University in Venice
•  Always  acting  in  conformity  with  national  and  In the Italian companies this issue if regulated by D.Lgl. 
international standards; 81/2008; also, the manufacturing companies monitor 
•  Managing dangers and risks related to very task and  health and safety on the basis of the local laws. The Italian 
“ASA as the expression of an innovative business model based on the issues of Data Driven and 
every activity; every variation in the organizational  companies of the Group have also analyzed the issue 
Servitization in the Healthcare Context”: with this focus the subsidiary, ASA of the El.En. Group was 
layout at every level, comports an up-date of the  of health and safety in relation to the Organizational 
selected in 2019 as a case study as part of the “Strategy Innovation Master” at the University Ca' 
relative documentation; level in compliance with D.lgs 231/2001. The principle 
Foscari of Venice which is intended to train managers and entrepreneurs to formulate innovative 
that is followed is that the policy of safety should be 
•  Supplying competence and awareness of the risks 
new business models. This is an important recognition for one of the companies of our Group 
raised to a corporate level like all the other values that 
related to the environment and to the tasks through 
which has always been sensitive to the implementation of its performance through research and 
characterize the strategy of the Company. Just as we 
continuous information and training; 
studies.
make use of organizational systems for the management 
•  Periodic revision of the procedures and the work 
ASA was selected by the director of the Master, for the session dedicated to Strategy Innovation  of  economic  resources,  in  the  same  manner,  safety 
safety instructions in order to modify and improve 
Sources, which will present the study conducted for the creation of new business models for  must  represent  an  essential  value  which  must  be 
them;
the future of the company. The ASA case history will therefore become one of the subjects for  protected and implemented constantly, with the help 
the discussion of the Master which will be divided into four key issues: “Strategy Innovation  •  Adoption of good practices in the management of  of an organizational system which is able to identify 
Competencies”,      “Strategy  Innovation  Sources”,  “Strategy  Innovation  Tools”  and  “Strategy  contracts and sub-contracts in order to reduce the  the  instruments,  the  responsibilities  and  the  direct 
Innovation Project Work”. risk of interference; motivation  and to express the commitment of the top 
“We are very grateful for this invitation; it is a tangible recognition that the investments which we  •  Search for the best technology available for the  management in relation to this subject. 
have always made in strategic development are well placed”, commented Roberto Marchesini,  protection of the individual and the collectivity. From  this,  the  commitment  to  the  respect  of  the 
Managing Director of ASA. In  all of the manufacturing companies of the Group  regulations  related  to  health  and  safety  in  the 
the issue of health and safety is monitored by processes  Organizational Model are derived,
88 89