Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
with  an  aim  to  promote  a  significant  reduction  are formalized and communicated to the workers by 
in  workplace  accidents;  the  recognition  that  the  means of the "Worker's Manual"; also in the German 
responsibility  for  the  management  of  safety  regards  and Brazilian subsidiaries, the analysis of the risks is 
the entire company from the employer to the each  formalized is specific documents which are periodically 
individual worker, on the basis of his tasks and skills; the  up-dated. The identification of the risks precedes the 
commitment to assign adequate human and financial  identification  and  implementation  of  the  corrective 
resources towards the objective of reducing accidents  and/or preventive actions. Most of the subsidiaries have 
and that of constantly improving working conditions,  adopted a procedure for reporting of risks by workers 
and  the  promise  that  workers  will  be  adequately  and they have elected safety representatives among the 
informed and trained in relation to the risk connected  workers.
with the processes. 
During this year the Italian companies of the Group held 
On  the  basis  of  the  Organizational  model  the  periodic meetings in conformity with art.35 of D.Lgs. 
following  measures  are  planned  the  identifying  and 
81/08, in which the employer, the company doctor, the 
locating, among the various company functions, the 
RSPP (Manager of Prevention and Protection Services) 
responsibilities connected with the issues of health and 
and the RSL (Workers' Safety Representative) attend and 
safety,  the  mapping  and  self-evaluation  of  risks,  the 
represent all of the workers. In line with a policy of the 
implementation of training programs. 
greatest transparency, in the periodic meeting of the 
For the companies located in the area of Calenzano, the  -  selection  criteria,  technical  characteristics,  and  In 2019 health and safety training courses  at a Group 
Parent Company a member of the Supervising body is 
central role of the HSE office in the management of safety  effectiveness of the individual protective devices which  level  were  conducted  for  a  total  of  2.043    hours,  a 
invited to participate as well as all of the persons who are 
has, over time, given us a more consistent and uniform  have been added or modified; decrease compared to last year due to the periodicity of 
members of the company safety staff. 
vision of the company policies in relation to this issue. - safety information and training programs for executives,  compulsory training by law.
During the meeting the following subjects are discussed:
managers and workers. 
In  all  of  the  manufacturing  companies  there  is  a  Considering  the  type  of  production  activity  that 
- up-dating of any modifications to be made to the risk 
plan  for  a  procedure  for  identifying  risks  related  to  During each meeting a new, improved safety program 
is  conducted,  all  of  the  companies  have  set  safety 
evaluation document;
safety and health of the workers: in Italy this activity is  is explained, in which they describe all of the objectives 
procedures  and  individual  and  collective  protection 
codified in the Risk Evaluation Document (DVR); in the  - evaluation of the trend in the number of accidents,  that the Prevention and Protection Services have set to 
devices  for  the  risks  that  are  connected  to  artificial 
Chinese companies the risks related to the workplace  professional diseases and health supervision; achieve the next year. 
optical radiation. 
The German and Brazilian companies also have specific 
In  particular,  all  those  involved  in  production  have 
commissions dealing with health and safety which meet 
periodically to evaluate the management  of these issues.  individual protections and, in a different manner, there 
are devices for individual or collective prevention like 
For  the  Brazilian  company,  the  health  and  safety 
representatives of the workers meet once a month to  barriers, container boxes and turn-styles to  delimit the 
monitor the situation.  production areas. The issue of safety is also monitored 
In all of the production companies there are representatives  in the non-manufacturing companies by means of the 
that  are  responsible  for  safety  and  health  issues  (for  collection and monitoring of data related to accidents.
example, the employer, the RSPP and managers for the 
At a Group level in 2019 they registered 16 accidents 
Italian companies, the general manager or department 
in the workplace, a sharp decrease compared to the 29 
manager for the Chinese companies, the employer and 
registered in the previous year; in any case, considering 
the safety manager for the German companies).
the number of new employees that was registered  the 
In all of the production companies there are training and 
accident  rate5 showed a drop and decreased from 11,4 
information programs regarding health and safety both 
to 6,3. The main types of accidents were lesions and 
at the start of employment and later, at regular intervals. 
contusions, mostly to the arms and legs.  During this 
The structure and type of training courses is defined by 
year so far no serious accidents or deaths have occurred. 
the individual companies but, in general, all of them have 
programs with training for generic risks as well as those  When an accident occurs the companies conduct an 
with risks connected to specific types of work, first-aid  investigation to determine the cause and take  new or 
courses and periodic up-dating courses.  improved preventive measures.
5 The injury rate was calculated as the ratio between the total number of injuries and the total number of working hours, using the multiplying 
factor of 1.000.000.
90 91