Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
6.3 The welfare of the people
The welfare of our people is a key factor in the success of the Company. In fact, 
technical skills are not enough to guarantee a good result; it is necessary for the 
company to offer its employees an environment that can stimulate their potential 
and their ability.
To support, promote and implement the welfare of our  With this agreement, the companies have also granted 
people the El.En. Group considers welfare an innovative  an improvement in the treatment with respect to the 
instrument  with  respect  to  the  traditional  types  of  present  ones  offered  by  the  CCNL  by  guaranteeing 
remuneration and incentive and it is destined to become  an extra day of paid leave for the birth of a child with 
an integral part of a modern and efficient management  respect to the present regulations and also the first three 
of resources.  days of a sick leave which lasts less than five days will 
Welfare programs are now planned by the Japanese  be paid 100% even after the third time. In the second 
subsidiary  and  two  of  the  Chinese  subsidiaries.  In  level agreement, the subsidiary Quanta System S.p.A. 
compliance with the CCNL for the sector which we apply,  introduced the possibility for every employee to convert 
the Italian companies of the Group issue a part of the  the entire production premium into welfare.
salary for flexible benefits. In particular, for the companies 
As  determined  by  collective  bargaining  the  Italian 
located in and around the Headquarters in Calenzano 
companies adhere to health care funds for all of their 
and Prato, by using a specific platform, every worker can 
employees. 
choose the befit or welfare service most suited to his/her 
For the employees of the companies in Calenzano and in 
needs like, for example, the costs of home care or health 
Prato, the Group has always offered free canteen service 
services reimbursement of school expenses, additional 
pension, training courses, recreational benefits, goods in  while the subsidiary Quanta System S.p.A. has its own 
kind, or collective transportation services.   gym which is available to all of the workers.
Moreover, on the basis of a company agreement which  Environments dedicated to employee well-being have 
was stipulated a few months ago, it will be possible to  been installed at the companies with   headquarters in 
convert up to 50% of the amount due to the workers  Calenzano and for the subsidiaries Asclepion and Asa. 
as a result bonus into welfare benefits and/or services.  Details are described below.
92 93