Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
‘’El.En. Wellness Academy’’ Asclepion GmbH
In early 2019 the company has opened new premises dedicated to the well-being of the  In the second half of 2019 the German subsidiary Asclepion GmbH inaugurated a new 
employees at the companies located in Calenzano. This new space covers an area of 500 mq,  building which had been constructed on a lot which was next to the pre-existing building 
and has state-of-the-art machines and equipment for exercising and an indoor playground  and connected to it; the new three-storey building offers increased space for the offices of 
for games between two to four basketball and/or football players. The gym is decorated with  over fifty employees, new manufacturing and storage areas as well as a cleanroom, a zone 
murals painted by a famous Florentine street artist which represent the connection between  dedicated to technical assistance and a modern center for training clients; the meeting hall 
Florence, technology and the future where the human component is always the element of  can hold about one hundred people or can be divided into three smaller areas. There are also 
continuity and union.  three rooms which can be used for demonstrations of the treatments, each one with its own 
dressing room.
In fact, this multi-purpose area has been created at El.En. with an aim to promoting and 
valuing human relations, participation and sharing. This initiative is part of a program for  The expansion project was developed and carried out in order to create a more welcoming 
the development of the well-being of the over 300 employees of the company who work  work environment for all of the employees including a cafeteria for about one-hundred 
in Calenzano. All of these activities improve the quality of the working environment in the  people, a fitness area with two rooms where four sports training course are offered each week 
company and are part of a broader plan which the Company started a few years ago for  and a panoramic terrace with a garden on the roof.
their employees which has as its ultimate goal taking care of their people in every aspect 
of their lives. It is increasingly important to combine each professional figure’s training and 
career path with investments that lead to the creation of an energetic and fulfilling work 
environment which stimulates teamwork.
94 95