Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
7.  Environmental responsibility
During 2019 the companies belonging to the El.En Group implemented many improvements 
For the Group, the environment represents a primary asset  its activities as well as the prevention of potential risks  while completely respecting the identity and the philosophy of the Group and directing all of 
which must be protected. To this purpose the activities  which may rise in this regard by implementing corrective  their decisions towards the safe-guarding of the environment and the creation of sustainable 
that have been planned are aimed at finding a balance  measures which respect the present regulations and best  value for the planet and for people. 
between the economic objectives and the requirements  practice on this issue.
of the environment in order to respect and protect the 
In 2019 the Parent Company adopted an Environmental 
For the new company Headquarters of the subsidiary ASA S.r.l. it has been determined 
rights of future generations in line with the principles of 
Policy with which they became committed to controlling 
that the quality of the design and construction of the building will enable them to avoid 
sustainable development. The Group is committed to the 
and reducing the environmental impact of their activities. 
the emission into the atmosphere of about 14,7 tons of CO  every year. Moreover they have 
monitoring of the environmental impact generated by  2
installed a plant for the treatment of the air which expels exhaust an inhales clean air from the 
outside. This plant will make it possible to achieve the maximum efficiency of energy which is 
guaranteed also by an exchanger which uses the heat of the exhaust to compensate for the 
7.1 Energy consumption
temperature of the air that is entering.
The design of the lighting system was based on high-efficiency LED technology and a 33 kW 
The Group undertakes to reduce its energy consumption  In percentage terms, about 38% of the consumption was 
photovoltaic plant has been installed in order to integrate the energy needs of the company 
through,  where  possible,  improvements  to  processes  for electricity and another 38% about was for the use of 
plants and the availability of a recharging area for the electric vehicles. Moreover, the Summer/
and infrastructures and the promotion of energy saving  company cars while about 24% was for natural gas and 
behaviors and habits, promoting the development of an  Winter air conditioning in all of the building is guaranteed by a high-performance heat 
LPG for the heating of buildings. During 2019, moreover, 
environmental awareness among people. pump with micro-perforated conduits which distribute the air and the temperature without 
the Group did not make use of energy from renewable 
The energy consumption of the Group consists of electrical  ventilation.
sources certified by guarantees of origin.
energy used for the heating or air conditioning of the 
The overall Energy consumption showed an increase with 
rooms and for the manufacturing processes; natural gas 
During the expansion of the company headquarters of Asclepion GmbH they also installed a 
respect to those registered for 2018 (+10%). This is mainly 
and LPG used as fuel for the heating of the buildings, gas 
photovoltaic plant which is estimated to produce 44 kW of power and which is estimated will 
and bioethanol used for the motor vehicles. due to the expansion or transfer of some of the subsidiary 
produce the energy requirements of the company for about a month and a half. 
companies (Cutlite Penta S.r.l., Ot-las S.r.l., ASA S.r.l. and 
In particular, in 2019, 298.799 m3 of natural gas were used 
and 5.770 liters of LPG. The total consumption of electrical  Asclepion Laser Technology Gmbh) to new larger premises 
In Quanta System S.p.A. the cogeneration plant which now exists in 2019 produced an amount 
energy  purchased  was  4.675.659  kWh  and  a  total  of  which  allowed  them  to  increase  production  and  hire 
of energy equivalent to 32% of that which is used overall by the company; in order to further 
461.219 liters of gas and diesel fuel were consumed. The  new employees which gave rise to an increase in energy 
quantity of bioethanol consumed was 23.745 liters. The  consumption. Moreover, there was also an increase of 14%  reduce the consumption this year they installed timer systems and motion sensors for the 
overall consumption of Energy was therefore 44.559 GJ.  in the consumption for the use of company vehicles.  lighting of the rooms.
2019: Beginning of the PLASTIC FREE era
At  the  headquarters  of  El.En.  S.p.A.  e  ASA  S.r.l. 
they  have  installed  stations  with  filtered  water 
in order to reduce the use of plastic bottles, which 
also means less CO  released into the atmosphere. 
2
During  the  inauguration  of  the  new  Asclepion 
GmbH factory  all  of  the  employees  were  given  a 
glass bottle with the company logo and all of the 
employees  of  Quanta  System  S.p.A.  received,  in 
their Christmas package, an aluminum canteen with 
this symbol on it in order to promote the use of these 
containers and reduce the consumption of plastic. 
100 101