Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
8.  About our reporting actions  that  have  been  undertaken  and  the  results  the  main  manufacturing  companies  of  the  Group 
achieved are reported in the chapter “Sustainability”.  have adopted a quality control system and obtained 
This document represents the second edition of the  and information is the same as that of the Annual Financial  Moreover we reported that: certification ISO 900112 and ISO 1348513 related to the 
quality control systems or medical devices. Moreover, the 
Consolidated Non-financial Statement (hereinafter "NFS")  Report.   The  scope  of  the  social  and  environmental 
Environmental matters 
Group bases its critical success factors also on its capacity 
of  the  companies  belonging  to  the  industrial  group  data and information presented is the same as that of 
The Group pays attention to the responsible management 
for innovation, as demonstrated by the investments in 
formed by El.En. S.p.A. (hereinafter the Parent Company)  the companies consolidated on a line-by-line basis in 
of its activities, seeking a balance between economic 
research and development which have the objective of 
and its subsidiaries (hereinafter the "El.En Group" or "the  the Group Annual Financial Report (for the list of the 
objectives and indispensable environmental requirements.  creating innovative systems and applications to meet the 
Group"). The NFS reports, to the extent that is necessary  companies of the Group that are consolidated using the 
On  November  14th  2019  the  Board  of  Directors  of  needs of customers and create new ones.
to ensure an understanding of the Group's operations,  integral method, please consult the section titled “Area 
El.En. S.p.A. approved their first “Environmental Policy” 
performance,  results  and  the  impact  regarding  the  of Consolidation” in the Annual Financial Report of El.En  Employee-related matters 
respecting the Sustainability Plan. In 2020 the subsidiary 
topics considered material and set out in Articles 3 and  S.p.A. as of December 31st 2019). With reference to the  In  the  Ethics  Code  the  Group  has  codified  their 
companies will also approve this policy.
4 of the Legislative Decree 254/16, with reference to the  significant variations which have occurred in the period  commitment to respect and protect the dignity, the 
financial year 2019 (from the 1st of january to the 31st of  being reported, it should be noted that on April 1st 2019  health, the safety and the privacy of their employees and 
december). has been founded the company Penta Laser Technology  Respect for human rights collaborators. Moreover, as part of the quality control 
(Shangdong)  Co.,  Ltd.,  which  is  held  100%  by  the  The Group protects human rights through the adoption  system (ISO 9001) adopted by the main manufacturing 
As established by Art. 5 of D.Lgs. 254/16 this document 
subsidiary Penta Laser Technology (Wenzhou) Co., Ltd.;  and dissemination of the Ethics Code which requires  companies  of  the  Group,  the  certified  companies 
this  document  constitutes  a  separate  report  and  is 
on June 19th 2019 the subsidiary Quanta System S.p.A.  conformity  with  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  safeguard the aspects related to the management of 
marked with specific wording in order to connect it to 
acquired the 70% of the capital stock of Galli Giovanni &  Rights issued by the United Nations and requires that  the employees. In particular, the Parent Company has 
the NFS required by law.
C. Srl. it be respected also by its main suppliers. In particular,  conducted  a  codification  of  the  procedures  for  the 
The  NFS  represents  a  first  step  towards  an  even  the Parent Company requires compliance with the Ethics  management of human resources as well as a profiling of 
The  information  and  the  data  reported  refer  to  the 
more  transparent  and  comprehensive  sustainability  Code  by  their  consultants,  distributors,  agents  and  the company functions with a detailed description of the 
financial year 2019 (from January 1st 2019 to December 
communication, as well as being an opportunity for  suppliers  of  critical  components.  On  November  14th  necessary responsibilities and skills. 
31st 2019). The data related to the previous financial 
communicating the annual results of the sustainability  2019, the Board of Directors of El.En. S.p.A. approved their 
year, when available, are reported only for comparative 
performance  that  have  been  achieved  during  the  first “Human Rights Policy” respecting the commitment 
purposes and to facilitate an evaluation of the trend in 
Supply chain matters 
financial year 2019 by the Group. the activity. The restatements of the data previously  they had made as part of the Sustainability Plan. In 
This NFS has been prepared in accordance with the  published  have  been  clearly  stated.  In  addition,  to  2020 the subsidiary companies will also approve the  As stated in the Ethics Code, the Group sets as one of 
new standard «Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability  fairly present the Group's performance and ensure the  Policy. Specific training courses regarding this topic are  its objectives that of creating relationships with their 
Reporting Standards» established in 2016 by the GRI -  reliability of data, the use of estimates has been limited as  planned, especially in those countries where legislation  suppliers that are based on standards of transparency 
Global Reporting Initiative (hereinafter “GRI Standards”),  much as possible. Any estimate in this document is made  on this subject is not as rigorous as it is in Italy. and correctness. In consideration of the renewed and 
growing interest of the organization in issues related 
according to the «Core» option. With regard to the specific  using the best available methods and is expressly noted.
to the supply chain, as mentioned in the materiality 
standard  GRI  403  (Occupational  Health  and  Safety),  The periodicity of the reporting of the non-financial  The fight against active and passive corruption 
analysis, the Group is committed to taking action with 
the  most  recent  version  of  2018  has  been  adopted.  information and the publication of the NFD is organized 
This subject is regulated by the Ethics Code of the Group to  their suppliers in order to define and share the principles 
Furthermore, for the preparation of the document the  according to an annual schedule. This 2019 version was 
which all subsidiaries, associated companies and the main  of social and environmental good practice and ethical 
Guidelines  CE  2017/C215/01,  have  been  taken  into  approved by the Board of Directors of El.En S.p.A. on 
suppliers must comply. Moreover, the subject is overseen  behaviour  intended  to  promote  a  responsible  and 
account.  March 13th 2020.
by the Parent Company and its subsidiaries Deka M.E.L.A.  sustainable supply chain: the commitment is that of 
The selection of the topics and the indicators reported  The NFS was subject of a limited assurance engagement  S.r.l. and Quanta System S.p.A. through the Organizational  extending these aspects of the Ethics Code by the end 
in the document was based on the information assessed  (according to the criteria set out by the ISAE 3000 Revised  Model pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001 On  of 2020, instead of in a specific Behaviour Code as was 
as relevant for the Group and its stakeholders during  principle) by Deloitte & Touche S.p.A. which, at the end  November 14th 2019, the Board of Directors of El.En. S.p.A.  earlier planned. The Group has started to add to the 
the  materiality  Analysis  described  in  the  chapter  of the work performed, released a specific report with  approved their first “Anti-corruption Policy” respecting the  process of qualification, selection and evaluation of the 
"Sustainability"  of  this  document.  Concerning  the  regard to the compliance of the information contained  commitment they had made in the Sustainability Plan. In  suppliers in Italy and abroad, a checklist of environmental 
information required by Art. 3, sub-section 2 of D.lgs.  in the Consolidated Non-financial Statement prepared  2020 the subsidiary companies will also approve this Policy. and social criteria to evaluate all potential new suppliers. 
by El.En S.p.A. as required by the Legislative Decree  Moreover, the company is committed to formalize the 
254/16  it  should  be  noted  that  in  consideration  of  Social matters
254/2016. reporting process for non-financial information as part 
the  business  activity  of  the  Group,  the  polluting  air 
The  Group  has  always  paid  particular  attention  to  of a procedure which defines roles, responsibilities and 
emissions other than greenhouse gases did not turn  The El.En. Group is aware of the company's responsibility 
the quality and safety of its products and, to this aim,  deadlines.
out to be relevant. The reporting and editing activities  to society and to the environment and has initiated 
of this document involved several Functions across all  a  program  of  continuous  development  regarding 
the geographical areas in which the Group operates,  sustainability  which  already  took  concrete  form  in 
12Companies certified as per ISO 9001: ASA S.r.l., El.En S.p.A., Deka M.E.L.A. S.r.l., Penta Chutian Laser (Wuhan) Co. Ltd and Penta Laser Equipment 
centrally coordinated by the working group dedicated to  2018 with the creation of the Group Sustainability Plan 
Wenzhou Co. Ltd, Quanta System S.p.A. and Asclepion Laser Technologies GmbH.
the project. The scope of the economic and financial data  approved by the Board of Directors of El.En. S.p.A.; the 
13Companies certified as per  ISO 13485: ASA S.r.l., El.En S.p.A., Deka M.E.L.A. S.r.l., Quanta System S.p.A. and Asclepion Laser Technologies GmbH.
108 109