Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
2  3 
Our auditing firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 (ISQC Italia 1) and, accordingly,  transmittal of non-financial data and information to the department responsible for the preparation of 
maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures  the NFS. 
regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory   
requirements.  In addition, for material information, taking into consideration the Group’s activities and characteristics: 
   
Auditor’s responsibility    at the parent company’s and subsidiaries’ level: 
   
Our responsibility is to express our conclusion based on the procedures performed about the compliance of  a) with regards to qualitative information included in the NFS, and specifically with reference to the 
the NFS with the Decree and the GRI Standards. We conducted our work in accordance with the criteria  business management model, policies applied and main risks, we carried out interviews and 
established in the “International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised) - Assurance  gathered supporting documentation in order to verify its consistency with the available evidence; 
Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” (hereinafter “ISAE 3000  b) with regards to quantitative information, we carried out both analytical procedures and limited 
Revised”), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) for limited  verifications in order to ensure, on a sample basis, the correct aggregation of data. 
assurance engagements. The standard requires that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited   
assurance whether the NFS is free from material misstatement. Therefore, the procedures performed in a    for the following companies and sites, Calenzano headquarters for El.En. S.p.A., Prato headquarters 
limited assurance engagement are less than those performed in a reasonable assurance engagement in  and production site for Cutlite Penta S.r.l. and Wenzhou headquarters and production site for Penta-
accordance with ISAE 3000 Revised, and, therefore, do not enable us to obtain assurance that we would  Laser Equipment Wenzhou Co. Ltd, which we selected based on their activities, their contribution to 
become aware of all significant matters and events that might be identified in a reasonable assurance  the performance indicators at the consolidated level and their location, we carried out visits on site, 
engagement.   during which we have met their management and have gathered supporting documentation with 
  reference to the correct application of procedures and calculation methods used for the indicators. 
The procedures performed on NFS are based on our professional judgement and included inquiries,   
primarily with company personnel responsible for the preparation of information included in the NFS,  Conclusion 
analysis of documents, recalculations and other procedures aimed to obtain evidence as appropriate.   
  Based on the work performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the NFS of 
Specifically we carried out the following procedures:  the El.En. Group as of December 31, 2019 is not prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with 
  articles 3 and 4 of the Decree and the GRI Standards. 
1. Analysis of relevant topics with reference to the Group’s activities and characteristics disclosed in the   
NFS, in order to assess the reasonableness of the selection process in place in light of the provisions of   
art. 3 of the Decree and taking into account the adopted reporting standard.  DELOITTE & TOUCHE S.p.A. 
   
2. Analysis and assessment of the identification criteria of the consolidation area, in order to assess its  Signed by 
compliance with the Decree.  Neri Bandini 
  Partner 
3. Comparison between the financial data and information included in the NFS with those included in the   
consolidated financial statements of the El.En. Group.  Florence, Italy 
  May 14, 2020  
4. Understanding of the following matters:   
   
  business management model of the Group’s activities, with reference to the management of the   
topics specified by article 3 of the Decree;   
  policies adopted by the entity in connection with the topics specified by article 3 of the Decree,   
achieved results and related fundamental performance indicators;   
  main risks, generated and/or undertaken, in connection with the topics specified by article 3 of the   
Decree.   
   
Moreover, with reference to these matters, we carried out a comparison with the information contained   
in the NFS and the verifications described in the subsequent point 5, letter a).   
  This report has been translated into the English language solely for the convenience of international readers. 
5. Understanding of the processes underlying the origination, recording and management of qualitative and 
quantitative material information included in the NFS. 
 
In particular, we carried out interviews and discussions with the management of El.En. S.p.A. and with 
the employees of Cutlite Penta S.r.l., Penta-Chutian Laser (Wuhuan) Co. Ltd and Penta-Laser Equipment 
Wenzhou Co. Ltd and we carried out limited documentary verifications, in order to gather information 
about the processes and procedures which support the collection, aggregation, elaboration and 
132 133