Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2019
1.   Sustainability 1.2 Our stakeholders 
 
1.1 Sustainability for the El.En. Group 
  Il Listening to our stakeholders is our top priority when it comes to understanding 
the  degree  to  which  we  are  satisfying  their  interests  and  their  expectations 
Sustainability means creating value over time and being ready to accept and  and to identify the issues on which we should focus our efforts with the goal of 
successfully deal with the challenges for tomorrow; in the light of the development  continually improving the impact of the company activities on the environment 
of the context to which we are referring and moved by the desire to communicate  and on society.
our commitment, we have undertaken a program of sustainability that is more 
detailed  because  we  have  always  believed  that  the  respect  of  the  law,  the  We have implemented a method for the mapping and  identification of the following entities having interest in 
protection of employment, the correct use of human resources and the defense of  identification of our stakeholders which has led to the  the Group, both internally and externally:
the environment, the research and development and the quality of our products, 
as well as the safeguarding of the interests and creation of value for all of our 
stakeholders are the only pathway that can be followed by a company  that is 
Human 
innovative, sustainable and successful.  Resources
The principles of sustainability for the El.En. Group are  focal points for managing the flow of information from 
Agents and Universities 
not  an abstract concept but have always represented   the subsidiary companies. 
distributors and research 
the basis for the development and growth that have  During the present year the objective has been that of 
centers
characterized  the  Group  over  the  years  and  are  the  increasing awareness of the impact and the importance 
demonstration that value is created through responsible  of the sustainability issues which have already been 
management which respects the economic, social and  defined and we have worked to spread the goals of the 
environmental equilibrium. Sustainability Plan and the activities required in order to 
The Group adopted this policy in a structured form only  reach them.  Our desire to integrate sustainability issues 
Clients and  Institutions and 
OUR
two years ago but they rapidly acquired the necessary  last year convinced the Board of Directors of the Parent 
consumers regulatory 
awareness and were able to quickly define the activities  Company  El.En.  S.p.A.  to  entrust  the  Committee  for  STAKEHOLDERS
bodies
that had to be carried out. This was due to the fact that  Controls and Risks with the task of examining the Group 
the problems that had to be dealt with and the aspects  policies and the objectives related to sustainability issues 
that required reporting were already part of their cultural  and the supervision of the relative Plan. 
background and the drafting of this document is the  In early 2020 in order to operate in a more responsible 
demonstration that, besides the economic results, the  and  efficient  manner,  we  decided  to  entrust  the 
performance of the Group has always achieved excellent  Managing Director of the internal controls system with 
Shareholders  Suppliers
results on environmental, social and governance issues.  the task of defining the basic strategy  of sustainability, 
and investors
Last year was an important year for the company in terms  the  Sustainability  Plan    and  the  examination  of  the 
Local 
of the definition of their commitment in relation to ESG  Consolidated Non-financial Declaration so as to further  
communities
issues. We drafted and approved a five-year Sustainability  guarantee  an adequate safe-guarding and monitoring of 
Plan and we defined a central coordinating unit and local  the processes. 
In 2019 El.En. was classified second among corporations quoted on    AZIENDE QUOTATE
(extra campione prime 100)
the stock market in the Integrated Governance Index presented  Again this year, in order to gather and evaluate the  next few years by submitting questionnaires to other 
on June 13th at the ESG Business Conference.  expectations and the issues of major interest for the  categories  of  stakeholders  which  have  not  yet  been 
This index was drawn up by ETicaNews and Top Legal with the  2019 stakeholders  we  have  conducted  specific  activities  interviewed, conducting an analysis of the market and 
scientific  support  of  numerous  associations  in  the  sector  and  related  to  stakeholder  engagement:  we  submitted  implementing other means of communication.
EL.EN.
measures  the  adoption  of  ESG  (Environmental,  Social,  and  seconda classificata a  questionnaire  to  a  selected  sample  of  internal  In the paragraphs below we will describe the methods 
Governance) topics in the company strategy.  stakeholders  (employees  of  some  of  the  subsidiary  used and our main channels of communication  and 
companies).  This  process  will  be  continued  for  the  dialogue with the stakeholders of the Group:
14 15