sustainability report 2019 2 / the group's commitment
2
2.1 To this end, the creation of the Re-
search and Development division re-
Manni Group's 
flects the will to explore new avenues 
thanks to technology, consistent with 
development 
product and system innovation proj-
ects, while embracing sustainability 
drivers
and digitisation principles.
Manni  Group  considers  sustain-
ability as a way of doing business, 
an  approach  enabling  long-term 
Manni  Group’s  forward-looking  development in harmony with the 
vision,  based  on  skills  and  values  environmental  and  social  context 
20 21
acquired during its 75-year old busi- in  which  the  company  operates. 
ness history, rests on three closely  Steel and the construction market, 
interwoven drivers: to which Manni Group has always 
linked its name — together with the 
→ Innovation mechanics  and  plant  engineering 
→ Sustainability sectors — allow a practical contribu-
→ Internationalisation tion to be made to the fight against 
climate change and to the transi-
They are considered as medium/ tion to a circular economy model, 
long-term  assets,  the  results  of  in which business partners are also 
which can most undoubtedly bene- involved. As a steel-industry group, 
fit all of the Group's Business Units. we feel duty-bound to reduce the 
impact of the construction business 
Internationalisation  allows  the  on the planet and to contribute to 
Group to diversify its activities at a  the  promotion  of  alternative  con-
geographical  level,  spreading  risk  struction systems.
and  investment  across  European  Since 2016, Manni Group has in-
and non-European markets. More- cluded  sustainability  in  its  Gover-
the group's 
over, the challenge posed by differ- nance  system.  Manni  Group  has 
ent  cultural  contexts  enables  the  adopted a Sustainability Policy that 
organisation and its employees to  requires the establishment of a Busi-
grow and develop skills within an in- ness Sustainability Officer function 
ternational environment. reporting directly to the CEO of the 
Holding  Company.  The  policy  re-
Innovation allows Manni Group to  flects the concept of sustainability 
commitment respond to the new market needs  in  governance-related  documents, 
and  improve  production  process- with  reliance  being  made  on  the 
es,  making  them  increasingly  effi- annual  report  as  a  way  to  reach 
cient and effective while involving a  the stakeholders and report on its 
low environmental impact, offering  actions. By adopting a Sustainabil-
high-added-value products. ity Policy, the Group also pursues 