sustainability report 2019
target-oriented  goals  relating  to  
emission reduction, circular econo-
my and product life cycle, involving 
the supply chain in reaching these 
goals. Finally, Manni Group also sets 
out to contribute to the achievement  Manni Group promotes the  By training and informing its  Operating in the steel sector and  Manni Group has reduced its  By relying on its governance structure, 
Green House Gases emissions by 
of the United Nations SDGs through  health and well-being of its  employees and promoting  influencing a supply chain consisting of  organisational model and Code 
20% in absolute terms over the 
its operations. employees through its health  education improvement through  over 270 suppliers of raw materials and  of Ethics, anti-corruption and risk 
past 4 years and intends to pursue 
and safety policies and   corporate welfare, Manni Group  semi-finished products, Manni Group  management system, Manni Group 
With a view to protecting the envi-
further challenging reduction 
corporate welfare supports inclusive and fair  supports responsible circular economy,  contributes to creating solid institutions 
ronment, Manni Group also embrac- milestones in the future.
learning opportunities. production and consumption practices. and fair and ethical behaviour.
es  the  prudential  approach  intro-
duced by the UN, according to which 
a given operation must be carried 
22
out with due account being taken of 
Research and 
environmental impact. Manni Group believes in open  renovate existing buildings. The 
innovation. This is why synergy  Rezbuild project, on the other hand, 
Development
with strategic partners, aimed  is essentially aimed at creating a 
at combining expertise and  collaborative renovation ecosystem 
About the  Through the activity of Manni  With over 1,100 employees and  know-how in products and  focused on the stock of existing 
Energy, the Group contributes  many collaborators in different  In 2018, the Manni Group Research  solutions, is considered to be a  residential buildings, using the 
to ensuring access to low-cost,  countries around the world, Manni  and Development (R&D) Division  fundamental aspect. With this in  Near Zero Energy Building (NZEB) 
Sustainable 
reliable, modern and renewable  Group’s operations have been 
was established, with the aim  mind, the company has started  renovation methodologies.
energy systems. stimulating economic growth and 
of addressing some of the main  cooperating with some of the most 
Development  full employment for 75 years.
sustainability issues in terms of  important Italian universities, 
statics, earthquake-proofing, fire  including Padua University, Milan 
Goals (SDGs)
protection, environment, while  Polytechnic, Federico II University 
paying attention to the aesthetic  in Naples, Trieste University and 
functional and architectural impact  Verona University, as well as the  5
of group products. The R&D Division  Technological Research Centre in 
On 25 September 2015, the United  has so far enabled all Group  Rovereto.
Nations approved the Agenda 2030  companies to innovate products  In addition, the company 
Active partnerships  
for Sustainable Development and its  and processes. An example of this is  participates in specific innovative 
Products for off-site and dry  Renewing cities — hence 
with universities
17 Sustainable Development Goals  construction, using steel  reducing their environmental  to be found in the Leaf technology,  construction projects funded by the 
(SDGs), consisting of 169 targets to  as a construction material,  impact — with high-performance  developed for the Isopan panels,  European Union, such as Step-Up 
adoption of digitised production  seismic and fire resistance 
be  achieved  by  2030.  The  imple- ensuring a significant improvement  and Rezbuild**. The aim of the  2
technologies: Manni Group  products allows Manni Group  
mentation of the Agenda requires a  in the thermal performance of  StepUP innovation project is to 
encourages the construction  to promote sustainable cities  
strong involvement from all parts of  buildings and using halogen-free  develop a “Plug & Play” system 
of resilient infrastructure and  and communities.
society, from businesses to the pub- promotes innovation. flame retardants (www.isopan.it/ capable of combining the “passive” 
lic sector, from civil society to philan- leaf). Another example is provided  component (envelope) with the  Ongoing innovative projects  
thropic institutions, from universities  by the Green Roof solution intended  “active” component, related to the  funded by the European Union
and research centres to information  for green roofs, designed in  plants and to the production and 
and culture professionals. partnership with Daku.* storage of energy, to be used to 
* www.isopan.it/prodotti-speciali/greenroof
** To learn more, visit their respective websites: Step-Up: stepup-project.eu and Rezbuild: rezbuildproject.eu