sustainability report 2019 2 / the group's commitment
2.3 Materiality Analysis entails identi- → Aligning the annual report with in- Materiality matrix
fying and assessing the priority of  ternational standards
Materiality 
all relevant issues (material topics),  → Updating the Sustainability Policy 
analysis and  i.e. the issues or topics that can in- based on a process shared with  4.6
fluence the opinion and actions of  Stakeholders
G
materiality  Stakeholders and, as a result, the  → Analysing possible ESG risks (to-
company’s ability to create lasting  gether  with  the  Enterprise  Risk  4.4
and shared value. Management (ERM) function) S
matrix
H
Manni Group’s BSO (Business Sus- → Considering  ESG  issues  when 
tainability Officer) began to consider  mapping risks (together with the  4.2 J
conducting this analysis as early as  ERM function) F P B
D
2018, when the annual report was  By relying on such a listening and 
A O
Our active and constant dialogue  drafted.  The  objectives  being  pur- exchange process, the Group is able  4.0 C K
26 with the internal and external Stake- sued by the BSO through this analy- to assess the extent to which it un- ers L U Q 27
d
ol T
holders  —  based  on  transparency  sis tool include: derstands and meets the expecta- h
e M
and trust values — led in 2019 to the  → Providing the Board of Directors  tions and needs of its Stakeholders,  tak 3.8
S
first Materiality Analysis, which was  with a guidance tool while identifying the areas where its  he  R V
t
r 
completed  using  an  online  ques- → Providing  useful  information  for  commitment must be increased and  Fo
tionnaire in six languages distribut- the  definition  of  corporate  and  those where the approach adopted  3.6 I
N E
ed to over 12,000 contacts. sustainability strategies must be pursued.
Issues not considered in the report
3.4
1. 2. 3. 4.
Identifying key issues Management and   Analysis of results   Review by the Board  
Stakeholder engagement and materiality matrix of Directors
3.2
In order to identify the  By administering a six- The process to determine  At the end of the process, 
Group’s key issues,  language questionnaire  issue relevance was  the entire analysis was 
an initial analysis was  to its stakeholders, Manni  carried out by performing  reviewed and approved by 
conducted on the  Group assessed what  a statistical analysis  the Board of Directors. 3.0
sustainability reports,  Stakeholders consider to be  of the results of the  3.0 3.2 3.4 3.6 3.8 4.0 4.2 4.4 4.6
websites, governance  important in their dealings  questionnaires submitted  For the Company
documents, policies,  with group companies,  by the stakeholders and 
codes of ethics and  and what they consider to  those submitted by the 
supplier integrated  be relevant to them. At the  Department Heads.
assessment in relation to  same time, engagement  The topics that scored 
Environmental issues Social issues Economic issues
suppliers, competitors,  by the management of  less than 3.8 x 3.8 were 
trade associations and  the different Manni Group  excluded from the 
lending institutions. All  companies was encouraged  reporting scope because  A Energy efficiency and air emissions G Health and safety in the workplace O Research and innovation
this information was  by holding ad hoc meetings  they were considered of 
then integrated with the  and administering a  little significance. The  B Circular economy H Professional training P Product and safety and quality
analysis of international  questionnaire, the purpose  final result is shown in 
standards and press review  being to highlight the  the following materiality  C Natural resources and raw materials I Talent attraction and partnerships  Q Ethics and compliance
concerning construction  company’s needs. matrix. with universities
D Compliance with environmental  R Corporate governance
and steel sectors.
regulations J Human capital empowerment 
S Customer satisfaction
22  12,809  17 
E Environmental management tools K Social responsibility, ethics and values
Key basic issues Questionnaires submitted Relevan topics reported
T Economic value generated
F Renewable sources Key basic issues L Corporate welfare
373 
U Dealings with suppliers
Questionnaires received 
M Supporting employment
and reviewed
V Internationalisation
N Contributing to community welfare
22 
Hours of discussion  
wih Management