sustainability report 2019 3 / corporate governance
3
3.1
Structure
Manni  Group  holding  company  The  Board  of  Directors  of  the 
manages shareholdings and coor- Holding  Company  includes  repre-
dinates the Group, including by re- sentatives of business owners and 
lying on sub-holding companies. independent members. The Board 
The  meetings  of  the  Holding  of Directors of the Group boasts a 
company’s  Board  of  Directors,  whole range of high and wide-rang-
which  meets  at  least  every  three  ing skills, as it strongly believes that  
28 29
months, are a place where ideas are  a qualified leadership at the helm of 
shared, all the more so in today’s  the holding company, together with 
fast-changing  scenarios.  In  this  the  management  expertise  of  its 
connection, the methods based on  subsidiaries, will generate value.
which strategic decisions are made  The tasks and structure of the Su-
are periodically reviewed and con- pervisory Board are described in a 
trolled according to set patterns to  dedicated chapter on page 36.
ensure their effectiveness over time.
By  issuing  a  defined  Corporate  In the pursuit of its international-
Governance  document,  Manni  isation effort and in the light of the 
Group sets out a number of rules  management complexity of its geo-
on the key aspects that adjust the  graphical distribution, the Group de-
Group’s governance as needs for ex- cided to extend Governance to all its 
ternal delegation — and, therefore,  foreign subsidiaries.
the need to deal with risks — in-
crease, the underlying goal being to 
ensure that autonomy and control 
are appropriately balanced .
corporate 
Supporting  this  delegation  pro-
cess there is a qualified Audit Pro-
gramme  and  Risk  Management 
Department, specific training plans 
also for new employees in order to 
guarantee  responsibility  and  au-
tonomy. The system of delegations, 
governance policies  and  internal  procedures 
was reorganised in 2019. The Board 
of Directors of the holding company 
also sets out to provide company 
stakeholders with a clear vision of a 
fair and responsible business.