sustainability report 2019 4 / human  capital
4.1 The Group has defined a structure  → All the training phases are recorded  4.2 objectives, will now be able to inte- During 2019, the Group also consol-
of delegations and sub-delegations  and, where necessary, employees  grate quantifiable and measurable  idated its partnership with the CUOA 
Health and  Human capital 
pertaining to health and safety ac- are issued a licence enabling them  result items with the observation of  Foundation, a Business School that 
countability, the purpose being to  to perform their job; direct reports’ behaviour, this being  promotes training and the develop-
Safety training and 
ensure timely supervision across all  → The above-mentioned aspects are  a structured and objective activity  ment of managerial and entrepre-
different group companies. submitted to Management on a  based on communication and con- neurial culture. Indeed, participation 
empowerment
In  compliance  with  local  regula- yearly basis for its review, togeth- stant dialogue with direct reports. in managerial training courses in the 
tions, a periodic meeting is planned  er with the specific training plan,  Finance sector makes it possible to 
The Group considers the preven- with the participation of the Employ- for the purpose of both complying  bring added value within the Group 
118
tion of accidents, the protection of  er,  the  Prevention  and  Protection  with legal requirements and deliv- and to network with other entities 
the working environment and the  Service Manager, the Workers’ Safety  ering quality or optional refresher  Manni Group’s vision is based on  across  the  territory,  encouraging 
protection  of  its  own  employees  Representatives and the designated  courses. On that occasion, the an- internationalisation, digitisation and  synergies and partnerships.
to be of strategic importance. On  occupational doctor. nual objectives for improvement  sustainability: three milestones that 
Staff participating  
34 35
the  basis  of  this  assumption,  all  Occupational  health  and  safety  are also established. can be reached through technolo-
in the Performance  
the companies manage this aspect  management systems are based on  gy and, more importantly, people.  Management project  81
independently and in accordance  risk assessment, to be conducted in  The  workers’  health  not  directly  The  Group  believes  that  personal 
with the regulations in force in their  accordance with the regulations in  related to the working environment  and corporate objectives should be 
own country. force, in which the designated phy- is also protected through company  aligned at all times in relation to the  Manni Group strongly believes in 
sician and workers’ representatives  welfare  initiatives  and  healthcare  needs and expectations of the differ- lifelong learning, with the aim of pro- Total participation  
in Ambrosetti events
Due  to  its  production  character- are involved. This assessment will  schemes aimed at facilitating per- ent generations currently coexisting  viding continued training to its em-
istics, Manni Sipre also relies on a  result in such mitigation and control  sonal health based on second-level  and working within the company. ployees and collaborators, thereby 
certified Management System. Since  measures  as  necessary  to  ensure  agreements, which are also covered  furthering the retention of an “active  The employees of Italian compa-
2019, this system has been upgraded  the  health  and  safety  of  workers.  in chapter 6.2. Strategically,  therefore,  the  com- working population” and supporting  nies benefited from a total of 2,085 
from OHSAS 18001 to the more re- Examples  include  training,  health  pany’s  Human  Resources  depart- employment. hours of training during 2019, i.e. an 
cent UNI ISO 45001. All other Italian  surveillance,  emergency  manage- ment has resolved to integrate skills  average of about 3 hours per em-
companies base their management  ment procedures, technical process  and  Personnel  Administration  and  Individual and group English, Span- ployee.  This  figure  pertains  solely 
system on the provisions of the Con- instructions and technical safety in- Management  systems  with  new  ish or German language courses are  to training outside the company, to 
solidated Act on Health and Safety at  structions. More specifically: projects concerning people knowl- also delivered to encourage interna- which training hours delivered at the 
Work (Legislative Decree 81/08). edge,  engagement,  development,  tional collaboration between group  workplace must be added. Specific 
→ Monitoring  is  extended  to  both  satisfaction and performance. As a  companies. Worth noting is also the  monitoring is being set up with re-
The foreign Isopan companies take  injuries and accidents as well as  result, personnel management tasks  permanent refresher training service  spect to the latter. The preparation 
into account system guidelines pro- near misses, i.e. near injuries and  have  been  enhanced  to  include  of The European House Ambroset- of  this  report  has  made  it  neces-
vided  by  parent  company  Isopan  near accidents; moreover, causes,  new knowledge and tools relating  ti, addressed to 35 top and middle  sary to extend the reporting scope 
Spa, adapting them to the different  follow-ups and related actions are  to recruiting, training, internal com- managers. Its aim is to stimulate and  to the training received by employ-
national regulations. identified by using specific mod- munication  and  the  performance  increase  continued  education  and  ees. In this regard, the company has 
ules and internal investigations; management  process,  which  was  networking  through  a  programme  planned to initate a specific process 
→ Regular  health  surveillance  is  officially launched in June 2019 for  consisting of live meetings — distrib- to trace such information and to ex-
100% guaranteed in accordance with lo- all Manni Group, Manni Energy and  uted across Italy — and many live we- tend this approach to overseas com-
cal regulations; Manni Green Tech companies hav- binars. In addition, workshops and  panies.
→ Health  and  safety  training  and  ing a service record in excess of 6  global summits addressing a whole 
periodic  refresher  courses  are  months. range of topics are held, so that the 
Employees covered by a health   delivered in accordance with the  Through this process, each manag- many refresher training needs may 
and safety management system regulations; er, having defined the Department  be best fulfilled at all times.