4 / human  capital
4.3 All new members of Manni Group’s  focus on crimes committed by part- be an essential and priority objec- compliance with current legal require-
Corporate 
governing body, employees who car- ners or other company stakehold- tive: all production and service activ- ments. More specifically, no breach of 
Ethics and 
ry out activities on behalf of the or- ers. As to bribery between private  ities are therefore primarily aimed at  environmental laws and regulations 
welfare
ganisation as well as business part- individuals, the Supervisory Board  environmental compliance require- are to be reported for 2019.
Values
ners undergo specific training on a  scrupulously  monitors  sales  reps’  ments.
regular basis regarding corporate re- operations.
sponsibility, with the first cycle of les- Manni Group considers compliance  292
In addition to training, Manni  sons being held from 2011 to 2013,  The  independent  Supervisory  with  environmental  regulations  as 
Group encourages reliance   Manni Group relies on a specific  while the second cycle — started in  Board has relations with the Board  the minimum but essential condi-
on services that can contribute  organisational model for each com- 2016 — was completed in 2019. of  Statutory  Auditors  and  the  In- tion for the legitimacy of production 
to improving the quality of life  pany that complies with the local  The Code of Ethics, translated into  dependent  Auditors  and  receives  processes. Operations assessed  
of workers. standards  of  the  countries  where  all the languages of the countries in  reports relating to any misconduct  Manni Group is therefore commit- by the Supervisory Board
Through second-level  group companies operate. In Italy,  which the Group operates, is deliv- (whistleblowing).  It  therefore  per- ted to implementing and maintain-
37
negotiation, in July 2019 all  this model is consistent with the di- ered to each member of the compa- forms  constant  audits,  based  on  ing an effective environmental man-
Group employees were given  rectives of Legislative Decree 231/01,  ny's governing body, employees who  which  quarterly  reports  are  creat- agement system at the production  148
the opportunity to access the  on  which  the  company’s  Code  of  carry out activities on behalf of the  ed  for  each  group  company.  The  site, while pursuing a policy of con-
corporate welfare platform —  Ethics is based, in order to prevent  organisation and business partners,  Group’s foreign subsidiaries are also  tinuous improvement of its environ-
which the Services BU has been  misconduct and possible offences.  urging them to read the document,  subject to the same system, which  mental performance, allocating ad-
accessing since 2018 — and  Already renewed in 2018 following  which is available on the corporate  implements the regulations of the  equate financial, technological and  Sensitive anti-corruption  
thus be able to take advantage  a participatory project course dedi- website and, therefore, can also be  respective countries. professional  resources.  Likewise,  activities monitored
of a number of agreements. cated to corporate ethics, the Code  accessed by third parties. The company's Management con- the  Group  endeavours  to  ensure 
These agreements make it  applies to the entire workforce of  At Manni Group, the Organisation- siders environmental protection to  that its activities are carried out in  
possible to benefit from facilities  group companies. With this in mind,  al Model is managed through the 
on different categories of  the Ethics Committee was then es- Cloud governance 2.0 system, which 
services and products, ranging  tablished with the tasked of oversee- makes  it  possible  to  analyse  and 
from personal and family health  ing compliance with the principles  manage the risk of crime, assess the 
to education and training costs,  set out in the text. These values and  risk of any sensitive activity, establish 
from leisure to travel, from  rules of conduct were developed by  non-compliance and require correc-
technology to fashion. the Ethics Committee itself and then  tive actions on the part of the pro-
approved by the Board of Directors. cess owner, which are then assessed 
by the Supervisory Board.
Other Committees were also estab-
lished,  including  several  technical  With regard to group companies, 
and operational Committees whose  in particular, 148 sensitive activities 
periodic meetings are monitored by  potentially at risk of corruption are 
the  Supervisory  Board.  The  infor- monitored, out of a total of 292 op-
mation flows sent by these bodies  erations  assessed  and  managed. 
to  the  Supervisory  Board  make  it  The  most  significant  risks,  identi-
possible  to  provide  the  governing  fied  during  the  relevant  analysis, 
bodies with relevant information on  pertain to political corruption and 
environmental and social issues that  bribery between private individuals. 
may  arise,  including  Top  Manage- In the former case, the risk of direct 
ment reviews of the management  crime was considered — within Man-
systems implemented or mandatory  ni Group — as marginal, albeit the 
periodic meetings on safety. Supervisory Board’s keeps a strong 