sustainability report 2019 6 / sustainability of the supply chain
6
6.1 In 2019, the electronic version of 
the  customer  satisfaction  survey 
Customer 
was  also  introduced.  The  related 
questionnaire  gives  some  insights 
orientation
into expectations, satisfaction with 
the results achieved and provides 
a comparison with the rest of the 
market. It was administered as a first 
For the past 15 years, Manni Group  test to 500 selected customers with-
companies have been relying on a  in the Trevenzuolo plant operating 
function whose main focus is to de- perimeter, with 34 replies expressing 
liver  an  increasingly  accurate  and  appreciation for the quality of the 
efficient  service  to  its  customers,  services and the variety of the Iso-
40 41
resulting in some interesting inno- pan product range. It also showed 
vations being introduced in the past  that the increasing need for flexibil-
year: ity expressed by the market. The sur-
vey will certainly be improved and 
→ Streamlined  production  and  ser- extended to other Isopan entities in 
vice organisation to ensure timely  the coming years.
delivery, including for small orders.
→ Technical department’s increased  The service centres of the Steel BU 
focus on customer orientation. provide their customers with tech-
→ Introduction of self-declared cer- nical and commercial support with 
tifications  regarding  technical   professionally  trained  personnel 
sustainability 
product specifications. who also act as a service for logis-
→ Internal newsletter to inform and  tics aspects.
keep all staff up to date with the 
latest technical and commercial  More generally, group companies 
developments. rely  on  customer  service  as  their 
strong point, with the considerable 
With a view to transparency, cus- organisational and management ef-
of the supply 
tomers are granted free access to  fort made also playing a role to this 
Manni Group’s plants for on-site in- end. Indeed, the recent upgrading of 
spections. IT systems was aimed at achieving 
precisely this goal. The new SAP sys-
More specifically, the Panels BU has  tem, which became fully operation-
implemented a technical prescrip- al at Manni Sipre and Manni Inox in 
tion and advisory service for custom- 2019 following a great effort in terms 
chain ers having more specific needs with  of  commitment  and  organisation, 
a view to helping to chose the best  and at Isopan Spa as of 2020, en-
technical and application solution,  sures accuracy, timeliness, reliabili-
consistent  with  the  objectives  set  ty, transparency and flexibility.
out by the customer.