6 / sustainability of the supply chain
GDPR 6.2 SOURCING POLICY This is expected to gain momen- Geographical distribution of group-wide supplies
tum  in  the  coming  years  thanks,  % of annual expenditure 
Suppliers 
Being  aware  of  the  importance  among other things, to the imple- 0 20 40 60 80 100
and Partners of  supplies,  in  2017  Manni  Group  mentation of online tools, together  Italy 51.1%
launched a plan for the upgrading  with possible second party audits.  Spain 10.9%
The European Union’s GDPR  of sourcing policies. The issues ad- These tools focus on sharing infor- Romania 4.9%
Regulation governing the  dressed  during  discussions  with  mation concerning: Germany 4.6%
processing of personal data  suppliers  for  the  development  of  India 4.1%
and privacy became effective  Manni  Group’s  holistic  and  these  sourcing  policies  relate  to  → Management and certification  Russia 3.5%
and binding on all European  cross-cutting  approach  to  sus- circular  economy,  climate-altering    systems The Netherlands 3.2%
companies. tainability is also reflected in the  emissions,  development  strategy,  → Corporate strategies Mexico 3.0%
South Africa 3.0%
The data managed as part of  management of the supply chain:  innovation, management and certi- → Circular economy
Luxembourg 2.6%
Manni Group operations concern  thanks to a focus on social and en- fication systems, training, health and  → Air emissions
France 2.0%
three types of stakeholders: vironmental variables, the company  safety, relations with local communi- → Innovation
Czech Rep. 1.9%
has furthered development in the  ties and risk management. This proj- → Training
Sweden 1.6%
→ Commercial and administra- countries where its production fa- ect was reflected in the Sourcing Pol- → Health and safety
Other countries 3.6%
tive information concerning  cilities are located. icy document, which was published  → Risk management
customers The growing importance of sourc- in the course of 2018. The text con- → Ethics and the fight against 
Countries of origin of supplies
→ Commercial and administra- ing  for  the  company’s  businesses  tains the main principles on which    corruption
Countries of origin where a group production company has operations
tive information concerning  has  led  the  Group  to  consolidate  the  Group’s  development  vision, 
suppliers the purchasing policy development  Code  of  Ethics  and  Sustainability 
→ Personal and sensitive informa- plan, involving the main suppliers for  Policy are based, making sourcing 
tion concerning employees the five main categories of products  choices consistent with the evolu-
and services purchased: tion of corporate strategies. It also 
In line with the GDPR provisions,  incorporates the principles set out in 
the company uses suitable  → Steel the United Nations Global Compact.
procedures for the collection  CTS → Chemicals In the light of this Policy, the com-
U
D
of consent to the processing  RO → Mineral wool pany and all the Group’s subsidiaries 
P
E 
of data and the appropriate  OR → Independent contractors will therefore undertake to integrate 
C
management thereof. In addition,  → Transport the social and environmental vari-
all internal IT systems have  able into supply chain management.
been upgraded to prevent any  Recent analyses of the life cycle of 
data leakage or — should this  the  Group's  products  have  shown 
occur — to report any such event  that cooperation between the vari-
271
immediately and remedy it. Such  ous players along the value chain is 
an organisation ensured that no  a key enabler for achieving the sus-
data leakage of any kind occurred  tainability goals being pursued by 
during 2019, despite the theft of  the Group. Core active suppliers Value of annual expenditure used in local purchases, compared to the companies for which the supply is intended
A supply expenditure is considered as local if it originates from the same country as the business name being supplied.
three corporate computers and a 
smartphone to date there are no  More  specifically,  this  analysis 
substantiated complaints on the  showed that the consumption of pri- The integrated assessment process  49% 52% 56%
subject. mary resources and the impact on  allowed  detailed  information  to  be 
climate change are supply chain fac- collected from the main core suppli-
tors that need to be mitigated in ad- ers, accounting for more than 50% of 
vance in order to limit their effects. annual expenditure (2017 figure). 2017 2018 2019