sustainability report 2019 6 / sustainability of the supply chain
6.3 In addition, through its companies  Finally,  through  its  foreign  com- •  Italian-Russian Chamber of 
based in Italy, Manni Group partici- panies Manni Group participates in  Commerce
Partnerships
pates in and contributes to the activ- the following national local associ- •  Russian Federation Chamber 
ities of the entities and associations  ations: of Commerce and Industry, 
listed below: Volgograd branch
→ Isocindu •  GIM Unimpresa - Association 
Manni Group’s commitment to cre- A platform for sharing events, mag- This is the Trentino Technology Dis- → Confindustria (Association of Ital- •  MCI (Metal Construction  of Italian Entrepreneurs in 
ating sustainable supply chains and  azines and updates on new technol- trict  for  Energy  and  Environment,  ian Manufacturers) Association) Russia
circular economic models is under- ogies that provide an outlook for the  which promotes environmental sus- •  ANETIF (National Association 
pinned  by  strategic  partnerships  future of the construction industry.  tainability through innovation and de- → ANRA  (National  Association  of  of TIF Plants, A.C) → Isopan De
with  projects,  business  initiatives  By relying on different players, such  velopment in the building sector. More  Corporate Risk Managers and In- •  Italian Chamber of Commerce  •  BGHM (Agency for 
and leading companies, as well as  as  technicians  and  professionals,  specifically,  it  provides  support  to  surance Managers) in Mexico Occupational Accident and 
by joining national and internation- Rebuild compares specific expertise  companies in projects for innovation  Safety at Work)
44 45
al cultural, social and humanitarian  and know-how. and enhancement of real estate assets  → AIPPEG  (Italian  Association  of  → Isopan Iberica •  ITKAM (Italian-German 
organisations considered as relevant  throughout their entire life span. Manufacturers of Ribbed Panels  •  PIMEC (Catalan Association  Chamber of Commerce)
to its activities.  and Elements) of Small and Medium-sized  •  AHK Spanien (Chamber of 
Enterprises in Catalonia) Commerce abroad from 
→ ASSOFERMET (National associa- •  Italian Chamber of Commerce  Germany to Spain)
tion of businesses engaging in the  in Barcelona •  GEMA (Society for music 
trade,  distribution  and  pre-pro- rights)
A  non-profit  association  commit- The mission of this association is  cessing of steel products, non-fer- → Isopan Est •  IHK (Chamber of Commerce 
ted to spreading and reinforcing re- to promote and encourage thermal  rous metal dealers, ferrous scrap  •  Confindustria (Manufacturers’  and Industry)
generative sustainability principles,  and acoustic insulation — in both  dealers and metalware distribu- Association) •  GEZ (Organisation of 
with a view to a world without fos- the building and manufacturing sec- tion firms). •  Italian Chamber of Commerce German Public Broadcasting 
sil fuels. ILFI promotes a number of  tors — by implementing technical  Institutions)
endeavours with high quality stan- and regulatory content and keeping  → UNICMI  (National  union  of  in- → Isopan Rus •  PPA-Europe (European 
dards for buildings, material produc- up with developments in the con- dustries for the construction of  •  NAPPAN (Russian Association  Association of panel and 
ers and environmental protection. struction industry. metal building envelopes, win- of PU Sandwich Panel  profile manufacturers)
dows and doors) Manufacturers)
It is the University of Padua Foun- This  association  defines  precise 
dation,  providing  companies  and  design  parameters  and  criteria  in 
investors with networking and inno- the area of sustainability. It relies on 
vation support services. The mission  the support of qualified companies, 
of the Foundation is to enhance the  Italian  communities  of  profession-
scientific  and  technological  syner- als and associations involved in the 
gies between the University of Padua  building sector. GBC Italia is part of a 
and the business world. wider network that includes over 70 
countries, one of the world’s largest 
green building organisations.