6.4
Sustainable 
“The construction industry in Europe 
building
uses about 36% of energy, accounts 
Isopan’s special products are the 
first in Italy to have obtained the 
for about 40% of annual CO2 
DECLARE label in March 2019. 
Thanks to Leaf and Green Roof,  Dry  construction  systems  feature  Dry  construction  techniques  are 
emissions, is responsible for 50% of 
Isopan has been awarded the  a  reliable  method  for  construct- well suited to being industrialised. 
label for the transparency of  ing safe, high-performing buildings  Indeed,  building  components  are 
raw material extraction and 1/3rd 
construction materials. based  on  definite  deadlines  and  not made on construction sites but 
Declare is the label created by  costs. Over the last 10 years, Italy has  using  industrial  techniques  and 
of drinking water consumption. As 
the International Living Future  witnessed a growing interest in this  technologies  rather,  and  are  then 
Institute (ILFI) that certifies  kind of construction, hallmarked by  hauled and assembled on site. This 
a result, the construction industry 
the safety of materials used  fast turnaround times, lower envi- method is known as “off-site”.
in products intended for the  ronmental impact, earthquake and  Since significantly less operations 
is not only a driving force behind 
construction market. fire safety, energy efficiency, acous- are required to be carried out on 
Each product bearing the Declare  tic comfort. construction sites compared to tra-
global economy, considering that it 
label declares that it does not  ditional construction methods, op-
contain “ingredients” that are  Manni Group plays a leading role  erators’ safety will also benefit from 
involves 18 million jobs in Europe 
on the Red List, i.e. the list of the  in this sector as it relies on steel, the  a dry construction approach. More 
most hazardous materials in the  ideal material for this type of build- details  about  aspects  related  to 
alone, but it also plays a key role in 
construction industry. ings, which the Group still considers  modern construction methods can 
to be a key area for its operations. be viewed at www.rebuilditalia.it.
achieving the climate objectives set 
out in the Paris agreements”.
Green Building Council