7 / Environmental responsibility
100%
7.3 the circular economy model. Recy- Partners have led to the production  pan-Deutschland,  with  reference 
cled content — i.e. the weight per- of panels using raw polyols from raw  being made to the Product Category 
A Circular 
centage of secondary raw material  materials of organic origin and with  Rules issued by the Institut Bauen 
used for the production of goods —  Scrap intended recycled content. It should also be  und Umwelt (I.B.U.) and to the LCA 
Business
for recycling
The Science Based Target  is governed by specific requirements  noted seen that these are already  study developed by Thinkstep.
Initiative, promoted by the  in the construction industry. Indeed,  becoming  common  practices  that  During the same year, Isopan Spa 
Carbon Disclosure Project, World  the most stringent international cer- Manni Group sets out to promote  started its own internal LCA process 
100%
Resource Institute, WWF and  tifications for building sustainability  and support. in relation to the first productions 
UN Global Compact, provides  By deploying initiatives based on  (LEED and BREEAM) as well as cer- on the Italian territory, which led to 
guidance to companies in setting  the Circular Economy model, Manni  tain law and regulations applicable  the publication of 2 EPD certificates 
long-term emission reduction  Group  is  committed  to  increasing  to  public  procurement  (NAP  GPP  Mineral wool waste LCA E EPD: LIFE CYCLE  during 2019. These certificates relate 
intended for recycling
targets, which allow global  the use of recyclable materials and  Minimum Environmental Criteria for  ANALYSIS to the life cycle of not less than 27 
warming to be kept within 2°C. reducing its waste production. construction), require designers to  products included in Isopan's cata-
55
Steel,  a  core  element  of  Manni  monitor and use a certain percent- The use of Life Cycle Analysis to  logue and were published thanks to 
Group’s business, abides by and re- age of components made of recy- perform  an  objective  assessment  the support of EPD International. 
flects the principles of this econo- cled material. of  the  impacts  generated  on  the  Available at www.environdec.com.
49%
my, as its characteristics allow it to  In 2019, Manni Group purchased  environment along the entire value  Manni Group plans to extend re-
be remelted and reused many times  432,000 tons of steel and holds cer- chain of the Group’s products was  liance on this analysis to all global 
Carbon 
without its physical properties being  tificates  on  the  recycled  content,  first introduced at Manni Group in  productions, thanks to the new EPD 
Average recycled content 
affected. issued  by  suppliers  in  accordance  2012,  thanks  to  the  cooperation  Process system required under ISO 
Footprint Italy of steel used
86% of the weight of the total waste  with ISO 14021, which covers 79% of  with the European Association for  14025  update.  Indeed,  the  Group 
produced by the Group’s companies  them. It should be noted that some  Panels  and  Profiles  (PPA-Europe)  believes that this type of certifica-
Carbon Footprint Italy (CFI), is  consists of steel scrap, which then  suppliers only use scrap as raw ma- in the production of the 2 EPDs for  tion and the ability to generate it 
the Italian Carbon Management  undergoes a reselling and recycling  terial  for  their  production,  with  a  22% polyurethane  foam  and  mineral  can prove a key driver for the cre-
Programme Operator established  process in order to be eventually re- 100% recycled content. The average  wool insulated panels. ation of a low environmental impact 
to disclose, in a professional  sold on the market. In any case, over  recycled material content of steel or- These  certificates  were  then  re- construction industry, enabling cus-
and dependable manner, the  91% of the waste produced dered by Manni Group in 2019 stood  newed  in  2018,  also  thanks  to  tomers to operate in new markets 
Average recycled content
results of the quantification of  was set aside for recovery. at 49%. of mineral wool used the  contribution  provided  by  Iso- with ease.
GHG emissions of products and  Finally, less than 1% is considered  The same analysis was extended to 
organisations. CFI was presented  as hazardous waste (this figure re- 13.2 thousand tons of mineral wool 
Recycled content*
during two events at the last COP  flects an estimate, in that it also in- ordered. More than 9,200 tons were 
held in Madrid, and addresses  cludes information from Mexico and  certified and more than 2,900 tons  18%
Steel Mineral wool
both product and organisation  Russia, where different legislations  came from both pre and post con-
carbon footprint. require a reclassification of hazard- sumer recycled mineral wool. 47.9% 49.1%
50%
Manni Group, with its GHG  ous  classes  to  ensure  consistency  The average percentage of certified  43.9%
Average recycled content 
emissions inventory prepared  with  the  European  classification,  recycled content stood at 32%, while  for Isopan polyurethane 40%
according to ISO 14064-1:2019  which is used as a reference). the average recycled content on to- foam panels
30%
standard and verified by Bureau  The focus on resource consump- tal orders stood at 22%.
22.1%
Veritas, is the first company to  tion during the purchasing process  During 2019, discussions held with  18.6% 20.0%
20%
be registered as an organisation  —  while  monitoring  the  recycled  a number of partners in the chemical 
within the CFI programme. content  of  the  materials  supplied  industry highlighted that this indus- 23% 10%
and subsequently used in the man- try is geared towards lower environ-
ufacturing process — is yet another  mental impact chemicals based on  0
2017 2018 2019
For info:  virtuous example of how the Group  strong circularity-oriented practices. Average recycled content
www.carbonfootprintitaly.it adopts an attitude geared towards  The choices being made by Group’s  for Isopan mineral wool panels
*The average recycled content is calculated based on order data.