sustainability report 2019 8 / highlights
8
8.1 development endeavours and new 
services in which the Group has in-
Earning 
vested, with special reference to the 
innovation of sustainable products 
results
and building systems.
Despite geopolitical tensions and 
the  widespread  trade  protection-
The results for 2019 showed virtu- ism that affected commodity prices, 
ally no change in the Group’s posi- EBITDA of the Steel and Panels Busi-
tions, with a slight drop in volumes  ness  Units  proved  positive,  albeit 
and turnover, this also being due to  stable, standing at € 20.6 million.
a drop in raw material prices, de-
56 57
spite the slowdown in growth in all  Capital and financial ratios showed 
international markets that began in  an increase and a consolidation of 
2018. Net Asset Value, while the net finan-
There was an increase in markets  cial position increased to underpin 
and international customers served,  investments, even though it proved 
consistent with the company vision,  to be well-balanced thanks to the 
according  to  which  Internationali- optimisation of the Group’s cash po-
sation is viewed as one of the three  sition.
key  drivers  for  development.  The 
share of customers to whom highly  The strategies adopted for the de-
qualified services and products are  velopment of the Italian and inter-
provided also increased, compared  national markets — which are wit-
to the distribution of standard prod- nessing a strong integration of the 
ucts. products  and  services  offered  by 
group companies — displayed en-
Today, the Group offers its products  couraging signs, leading to believe 
and services in 81 countries through  that the positive growth trend can 
all its Business Units. be maintained.
The Group’s aggregate turnover in  The  closely  monitored  organisa-
2019 exceeded € 603 million, show- tion of our companies, coupled with 
ing a 4% drop over the previous year  our focus on innovation and sustain-
(€ 630 million). The positive trend  ability, allow us to reach a growing 
in investments continued, which in  number of sectors and increase cus-
2019 stood at € 14.4 million, up 17%  tomer loyalty, while ensuring service 
compared to 2018. continuity  also  in  the  challenging 
highlights scenarios  affecting  the  economy 
2019 also saw an increase in the  and society at large following the di-
number of employees directly em- rect and indirect effects arising from 
ployed, standing at 1,156 as at 31  the shock that hit us all at the begin-
December 2019, reflecting the up- ning of 2020.
trend in the organisation’s interna-
tional  development,  research  and 