sustainability report 2019 9 / methodological note
9
REPORTING STANDARDS  REPORTING BOUNDARY
APPLIED
The information presented in this 
Manni Group’s 2019 Sustainability  document relates to the 14 Group 
Report contains information on gov- companies which alone contribute 
ernance, ethics, anti-corruption, en- almost entirely to the total consoli-
vironmental, social and anti-corrup- dated financial statements. Namely:
tion issues and respect for human 
rights, such information helping pro- → Manni Group Spa
vide Stakeholders with a clear view  → Manni Sipre
of  the  strategies,  activities  under- → Manni Inox
taken and results achieved by the  → Manni Green Tech
Group in the pursuit of its economic  → Isopan Spa
70 71
growth and business development,  → Isopan Ibérica
while taking into account the expec- → Isopan Est
tations of the Stakeholders involved  → Isopan Deutschland
and with a view to continuous im- → Isopan Rus
provement. → Isocindu
→ Icom Engineering
This  report  represents  Manni  → Manni Energy
Group's  Disclosure  prepared  in  → Manni Immobilia
compliance with the Sustainability  → Manni Store
Reporting Standards published in 
2016 by the Global Reporting Initia- Commercial  companies  Isopan 
method-
tive – GRI (with “Core Option” ap- Manni Group CZ, Isopan France and 
plication level). It should be noted  Manni Green Tech USA were includ-
that all reported GRI indicators refer  ed in the organisation chart and in 
to the GRI Standards version pub- the map on page 10 to indicate their 
lished in 2016, except for Indicator  presence in the territory. Financial 
403, which refers to the version pub- companies Panfin Srl, Gruppo Manni 
lished in 2018. The activities carried  Srl and sub-holding company Isopan 
ological 
out in order to determine the con- International were only included in 
tents of the report are described in  the organisation chart, as they are 
chapter 2 of this document. dedicated to the Group control. The 
newly-acquired  company  Maetrics 
The previous report is included in  Srl was only included in the organi-
the Annual Report 2018, published  sation chart to complete disclosure, 
online  at  www.mannigroup.com  in  as the acquisition transaction was 
note May 2019. completed in 2019 and, therefore, 
only  partial  data  and  information 
were available.
The impact of the companies not 
included in the reporting boundary 
was not significant for the purposes 
of this Sustainability Report.