sustainability report 2019 9 / methodological note
Information will be provided in the  REPORTING PROCESS
text in the event of changes to the 
reporting boundary. Any further lim- Manni Group Sustainability Report:
itations to the boundary are appro-
priately specified in the report. → Results  from  a  complex  internal 
data collection process involving 
several corporate functions and or-
DATA ganisations, including Sustainabil-
ity, Management Control, Corpo-
The economic and operating data  rate Affairs, Procurement, Human 
contained in this document are to  Resources, Management, Treasury, 
be considered as aggregated, i.e. in- Prevention and Protection Service, 
cluding any inter-company transac- Supervisory Board, Internal Con-
72 73
tions, and relating to the year ended  trol, Risk Management.
31 December 2019. The Group’s con- → Is prepared by the Business Sus-
solidated  financial  statements  are  tainability Officer, who is respon-
published  in  accordance  with  the  sible for data and information col-
Italian Civil Code. lection and process management, 
For purposes of data comparison  in conjunction with the Marketing 
or  contextualisation,  data  pertain- Function, who is responsible for 
ing to previous financial years were  content creation.
included and appropriately stated,  → Is supervised and finally approved 
where  available.  These  financial  by the CEO, on behalf of the Board 
years do not date back further than  of Directors.
2016, the year in which Manni Group  → Is subject to content approval fol-
began to broaden its annual report- lowing an audit performed by a 
ing activities. Any differences from  certified independent organisation.
previous editions of the report are  → Is made available to stakeholders 
due to new and more accurate cal- by  paper-based  and  electronic 
culation methods and are generally  publication on the corporate web-
specified in the text. site at www.mannigroup.com.
Heartfelt thanks are extended to all 
those who have contributed and will 
contribute to the preparation of this 
document.