 Letter from the ceo
We focus on all aspects of sustain- holders. We are qualifying our sup- business sustainable. This is the es-
“Rule 22 - Aware of its being accountable 
ability, comprising economic, social  pliers,  paying  increasing  attention  sence of the concept of Sustainabil-
and  environmental  issues.  There- to the sustainability content of their  ity. Indeed, today’s challenge is to 
to current stakeholders as well as future 
fore, we look beyond these latter as- proposition and to their responsible  combine the speed of change and 
pects, as we consider the economic  acting. the drive for continuous innovation 
generations, the Group promotes a holistic and 
viability of business choices, which  More and more standards and as- with  long-term  goals  and  invest-
underpin the survival and develop- sessment  frameworks  in  the  con- ments.
cross-cutting approach to sustainability that 
ment of the company in the long  struction  business  require  infor- We want to lead by example and 
term while ensuring the social inter- mation  and  certifications  on  the  encourage those who have only just 
defines every aspect of its business, allowing 
actions of our activities. products  and  services  offered,  in- begun  to  approach  these  issues, 
cluding the impacts generated by the  because  investing  in  Sustainabili-
it to continue to grow and strive in a fair and 
Essentially,  we  have  taken  steps  activities of the entire supply chain.  ty makes a company more credible 
both within and outside our com- Our  long-standing  organisational  and attractive, while significantly re-
sustainable manner, while relying on investments 
7
pany. This has led to the launch of a  set-up has enabled us to obtain cer- ducing some risk areas and opening 
plan aimed at reducing the environ- tifications such as EPD (Environmen- up new scenarios and relations.
in product and process innovation development.
mental impact and to the drafting  tal Product Declaration), innovative 
of guidelines for Management that  labels such as Declare, GHG (Green 
Managers are required to implement and 
were set out in the Group’s Corporate  House Gases) emission inventories  Wishing you an insightful reading,
Governance  document.  Research  verified  and  carried  out  in  accor-
supervise the management of business, 
and Development endeavours also  dance with ISO 14064:2019, which  Enrico Frizzera
got underway with a view to sup- are extended not only to direct emis- Manni Group CEO 
production, commercial and new product 
porting product and service innova- sions (categories 1 and 2) but also to 
tion by relying on materials that are  indirect, supply chain-related, emis-
development processes in accordance with the 
more natural, feature greater ther- sions pertaining to haulage and the 
mal efficiency and comply with the  production of the goods used.
Sustainability Guidelines set by the Holding 
most stringent certifications, while 
focusing on circular economy prac- During 2019 the Group non-finan-
Company. The Business Sustainability Officer 
tices, which are part and innate of  cial disclosure was further improved 
our business. by  extending  the  content  of  our 
(BSO) function is tasked with the drafting of 
Group Sustainability Report accord-
In 2016 we therefore adopted our  ing to the GRI Standard Framework, 
the action plan as required during the start-up 
Business Sustainability Programme,  which is based on the principles of 
a five-year programme that is up- accuracy,  balance,  clarity,  compa-
phase of the Business Sustainability Programme 
dated  on  an  annual  basis  and  is  rability, reliability and timeliness. A 
driven by our Sustainability Policy.  materiality  analysis  was  therefore 
and committed to its annual approval by the 
The purpose of this programme is to  carried out to become cognizant of 
direct the Group towards a shared  and reflect the view of all Stakehold-
Board of Directors of the Holding Company.  
management of environmental im- ers in company decisions.
pacts, the main ones being climate 
The BSO is responsible for performing the 
change and resource use. This prin- Our  75-year  long  history  bears 
ciple is implemented by sharing the  witness to the fact that developing 
above-mentioned audit”.
approach reflected in the Sourcing  investments and relying on an or-
Policy with our suppliers and by in- ganisation with a holistic, long-term 
Sourced from Manni Group’s Corporate Governance document creasingly  engaging  all  the  Stake- vision means making the company’s 