     
   
   
   
Assurance Statement addressed to Manni Group stakeholders  3.  CONCLUSIONS 
 
  Following the assurance activities described above, nothing has come to our attention 
1.  INTRODUCTION  to indicate that information and data in the 2019 Report are inaccurate, incorrect or 
  unreliable. In our opinion, the Report provides a trustworthy representation of Manni 
Manni Group has commissioned Bureau Veritas Italia S.p.A. (“Bureau Veritas”) an  Group activities conducted by during the year 2019 and of main results achieved. 
independent assurance of its Sustainability Report 2019: (hereinafter, “2019 Report”)  Information is reported generally in a clear, comprehensible and balanced manner. In 
for the purpose of providing findings over:  illustrating activities and achievements, Manni Group has paid attention to adopt an 
  the accuracy and quality of published information concerning its sustainability  objective language, avoiding being self-referential. 
performance;  With regards to the reporting methodology outlined by the organization in its Report, 
  the correct application of those reporting principles outlined in the Report’s  it is our opinion that principles from the GRI Standards (Stakeholder Inclusiveness, 
methodology, in particular Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting  Sustainability  Context,  Materiality,  Completeness,  Accuracy,  Balance,  Clarity, 
Standards (GRI Standards).  Comparability, Reliability, Timelines) were duly implemented. Based on our assurance 
  activities, a “Core” level of implementation has been achieved. We also confirm that 
our activities met the GRI requirements for external assurance.  
2.  RESPONSIBILITY, METHODOLOGY AND LIMITATIONS  
 
 
 
Manni  Group  alone  had  the  responsibility  of  collecting,  analyzing,  collating  and 
4.  DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE, IMPARTIALITY AND 
presenting  information  and  data  included  in  its  2019  Report.  Bureau  Veritas 
responsibility  has  been  to  perform  an  independent  assurance  against  defined  COMPETENCE  
objectives and to reach the conclusions reported in this Statement.    
 
Bureau  Veritas  is  a  global  organization  specialized  in  independent  assurance, 
The assurance performed has been a Limited Assurance in accordance to the ISAE 
inspection and certification activities, with over 180 years history, 77.000 employees 
3000 standard, through sample application of audit techniques, including:  
and an annual turnover of over 4,8 billion euro in 2018.  
  review of Manni Group policy, mission, values, commitments;  
Bureau Veritas applies internally a Code of Ethics and we believe there were no 
  review of records, data, procedures and information-gathering systems; 
conflicts of interest between members of the assurance team and Manni Group at the 
  interviews to members of the working group responsible for drafting the 2019 
time of the assurance.  
Report;  
 
  interviews to company representatives from various functions and levels;  
Bureau Veritas Italia S.p.A. 
  overall verification of information and general content of the 2019 Report.  
Milan, 03rd June 2020 
 
 
The assurance activities have been performed remotely by video conference and we 
believe  we  have  obtained  sufficient  and  adequate  evidence  to  support  our 
conclusions.  
The assurance has covered the whole 2019 Report, with the following limitations:  
 
for economic and financial information, Bureau Veritas only verified their consistency  Giorgio Lanzafame  
with the  company’s  economic data approved  by the  Board  of Directors;  for the  Local Technical Manager 
activities carried out beyond the accounting period (1st January 2019 – 31st December   
2019) and for any claim related to policy, intentions and objectives, Bureau Veritas   
has  only  verified  the  coherence  with  the  methodology  requirements  taken  as  a 
reference. 
 
   