sustainability report 2019 1 / 75 years of steel
1.4  1.5
Business  Company 
Panfin Srl
areas organisation 
59%
chart
Manni Group Srl
By  relying  on  the  21  companies  100%
forming part of its organisation chart, 
i.e. 2 holding companies, 15 operat- Manni Group Spa
ing companies, 3 commercial com-
panies and 1 sub-holding company, 
Renewable energy  
14
Manni Group operates in three differ- Steel Insulating panels and services
ent business areas, engaging in the 
production, processing and market-
ing of highly technological steel prod- 100% 100% 100% 50%
ucts and advanced design services.
Ownership remains in the hands  Manni Sipre Isopan Manni Energy Maetrics Srl
of the Manni family, with the Group 
being  only  formed  by  joint  stock  90% 100%
25%
companies  and/or  limited  liability 
companies. Manni Inox  25% 50% Manni Immobilia
100% Manni Store 100%
STEEL   PANELS   SERVICES  
BUSINESS UNIT BUSINESS UNIT BUSINESS UNIT Manni Green Tech Icom Engineering
Manni Sipre is a European lead- Isopan is among world leaders in  Manni Energy is the company en- 80% 100%
er in semi-finished steel products,  the production of insulating metal  gaging in renewable energy plant 
components and structural systems  panels for walls and roofs targeting  engineering  and  installation,  Op- Manni Green Isopan International 100%
Tech USA Ltd
intended for construction. Togeth- key international markets. In addi- eration  and  Maintenance  services 
er with Manni Inox, which engages  tion to commercial companies Iso- and  energy  efficiency.  Manni  En- 100% Isopan Ibérica
in stainless steel processing, it is a  pan CZ and Isopan France, it controls  ergy participates in the various re-
major point of reference for stain- the following five foreign companies  newable energy functions through  Isopan France 99%
less steel users. Manni Green Tech  through Isopan International: some of its subsidiaries. Moreover, 
is the company that operates in the  the Group is controlled by two oth- 50% Isopan Est
production and processing of light  → Isopan Ibérica (Spain) er  holding  companies,  Panfin  Srl 
steel profiles. → Isopan Est (Romania) and Gruppo Manni Srl, and controls  Isocindu 91%
→ Isopan Deutschland (Germany) Manni  Immobiliare,  the  Group’s 
→ Isopan Rus (Russia) real  estate  company,  and  design  99% 1% Isopan Rus
→ Isocindu (Mexico) company ICOM Engineering. Manni 
Isopan Manni
Store, on the other hand, covers the  100%
Companies excluded from the reporting scope
Group CZ
north-western  Italian  market,  dis-
Companies included in the reporting scope
tributing the Group products Isopan Deutschland