 
The Corporate Governance Model   
The Corporate Governance structure of Bologna Airport is based on the recommendations and principles of 
the “Self-Governance Code for listed companies” of Borsa Italiana. Moreover, the Company, as required by 
applicable regulations, has drawn up the "Corporate governance and ownership structure report", approved 
by the Board of Directors and published jointly with the Directors’ Report as an attachment to the Annual 
Financial Statements. This document contains a general description of the corporate governance system 
adopted, discloses information on the shareholder structure and compliance with the Self-Governance Code. 
It also describes the governance practices applied and the principal features of the risk management and 
internal control system. 
The company has adopted a traditional governance model, consisting mainly of the Shareholders’ Meeting, 
the Board of Directors, and the Board of Statutory Auditors. The financial statements are audited by an 
independent audit firm. 
 
The Shareholders’ Meeting is a forum in which the shareholders express and register their desires, and its 
resolutions  are  passed  in  accordance  with  the  law  and  the  By-Laws.  The  decisions  for  which  the 
Shareholders’ Meeting is responsible include appointing the Board of Directors (BoD) and approving the 
annual  financial  statements.  The  Board  of  Directors  is  invested  with  all  powers  of  ordinary  and 
extraordinary  administration  and  therefore  plays  a  central  governance  system  role.  The  Directors  are 
appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting on the basis of slates submitted by the shareholders. Each slate 
must  include  at  least  three  candidates  considered  independent  in  accordance  with  law.  The  slates 
presenting a number of candidates equal to or greater than three shall in addition include candidates of each 
gender, in order to ensure a Board of Directors composition which complies with the applicable gender 
equality regulation. The Shareholders’ Meeting appointed the Issuer’s new Board of Directors on April 29, 
2019, which will remain in office until the 2021 financial accounts are approved. AdB’s Board of Directors 
was composed as follows at December 31, 2019: 
Executive/Non-
Name  Age  Appointment  Indep.  Other offices 
Executive 
Enrico Postacchini  > 50  Chairperson  Non-Executive 
   
Chief Executive 
Nazareno Ventola  > 50  Executive  General Manager 
Officer   
Control and Risks 
Silvia Giannini  > 50  Director  Non-Executive  Independent 
Committee 
Remuneration 
Giada Grandi  > 50  Director  Non-Executive 
  Committee 
Remuneration 
between 
Laura Pascotto  Director  Non-Executive  Independent  Committee and Control 
30 and 50 
and Risks Committee 
Gennarino Tozzi  > 50  Director  Non-Executive  Independent 
 
between  Control and Risks 
Marco Troncone  Director  Non-Executive  Independent 
30 and 50  Committee 
Remuneration 
Eugenio Sidoli  > 50  Director  Non-Executive  Independent 
Committee 
Valerio Veronesi  > 50  Director  Non-Executive 
   
20 