 
Integrated Risk Management Model 
With  a  view  to  guaranteeing  medium  to  long-term  sustainability,  AdB  manages  business  risks  by 
implementing adequate policies and approaches to process management. AdB’s internal control and risk 
management system, viewed as the set of means adopted to mitigate the risks related to events which may 
potentially impact the company's performance and objectives, is divided into the various levels of control 
traditionally identified and is subject to supervision by the senior management and Board of Directors. AdB 
has therefore identified the following levels of control and related responsibilities:  
•  risk  control  and  management  duties  regarding  each  company  process  and  subject  to  the 
responsibility of the line management and functions;   
•  duties for the management of specific risks under the responsibility of specific competent functions;  
•  duties of assurance assigned to the Internal Audit function.  
In 2015 this arrangement was further reinforced through the launch of an enterprise risk management (ERM) 
model developed on the basis of the CoSO Framework. In 2019, the company updated its risk profile for 
2020-2024 on the basis of the model drawn up in 2018. The company also took into consideration potential 
risks connected to areas covered by Legislative Decree 254/2016. According to the adopted approach, 
process owners, identified in relation to corporate strategic goals, have updated the main risks to be 
assessed and identified potential new risks linked to developing business, activities paying careful attention 
to  identify  corporate  risks  that  could  be  connected  to  the  five  areas  of  Legislative  Decree  254/2016 
(environmental, social, HR, human rights or anti-corruption risks). The risks were then assessed for their 
probability and impact on four main aspects: economics, reputation, operations and sustainability. Finally, in 
addition to the activities carried out in 2018, existing mitigation actions have been identified for key risks, 
while additional response actions have been established to supplement the company’s risk management 
strategy. 
In general terms, the ERM project seeks to:  
 
 
In  addition  to  and  alongside  the  ERM  model,  the  Company  has  introduced  various  controls  for  the 
management of specific risks, connected to the second level of control mentioned above, such as airport 
security and safety (Regulation EU No 139), the quality of services (ISO 9001), protection of the environment 
(ISO 14001), energy management (ISO 50001), health and safety in the  workplace (OHSAS 18001), 
compliance with legislation on the administrative liability of companies (Legislative Decree 231/2001) and 
anti-corruption, as well as financial risk management, corporate information, accounting and the correctness 
and completeness of corporate, accounting and financial disclosures (Law 262/2005).  
   
28 