 
2  A new strategy for creating value 
As Bologna Airport Manager, AdB provides people and businesses with ample national and international 
connectivity. The Group’s relationship with the local area is both reciprocal and principled. While, in a global 
context requiring ever more mobility in competition, employment and training, the airport contributes to local 
economic and social development through the provision of sophisticated solutions in reachable destinations 
and service quality, the airport also develops and creates value by benefitting directly from the development 
of local areas and communities. 
  
Indeed, it is precisely the geographical area in which the airport is located and the wealth of the area’s 
catchment area that has led to the airport’s constant growth over recent years. At the centre of a catchment 
area that has historically extended far beyond regional boundaries, the airport serves approximately 10.9 
million residents, that is around 18% of Italy’s entire population, from as many as 20 Italian provinces. This 
potential increases exponentially with the knowledge that existing transport means (train and car) will be 
supplemented  by  the  imminent  launch  of  the  “People  Mover”,  an  elevated  monorail  set  to  become 
operational in 2020, providing a rapid connection between the airport and Bologna central railway station. 
Thanks to its particularly rich industrial hinterland and wealth of numerous small to medium-sized enterprises 
with a high propensity for exports, Bologna returns a higher GDP than many other major Italian and 
European cities. In particular, the city is at the heart of what is called the “Motor Valley”, famous the world 
over for high-performance car manufacturing, and is home to Europe’s fourth largest trade fair district, which 
organises more than 30 international trade fairs every year for upwards of 1,700,000 visitors, with 40% 
participation from foreign exhibitors.  
Over the years, the two components have facilitated the airport’s development, without regard to seasonal 
performance, ensuring essentially constant volumes in all months of the year. The strong relationship 
between the airport and the local community is clearly described in the Company’s Strategic Plan, in which 
the development of destinations (Connect) and the enhancement of infrastructure (Develop) represent the 
two fundamental pillars guiding the Group’s development.  
   
33 