 
2.1 Expanding the network of destinations  
This past decade has been marked by an increase in passenger traffic at Bologna 
Airport, which remains consistently higher than the average in Italy. 2019 confirmed 
this trend, with Bologna Airport recording an increase of 10.6% against a national 
average of 2.8% in 2018.  
The air transport market is facing some significant changes and challenges, including: increased demand, 
strong competition in both the airport market and between different means of transport (high speed, ground 
travel  connections,  buses),  new  technology,  greater  awareness  of  environmental  issues,  an  evolving 
customer base, and changes to tourism policies. AdB intends to continue to play a primary role in the 
evolving market, and to tackle its constant changes, and, as such, hopes to better adapt its business 
strategy to new trends and to make the most of the resulting opportunities. The Group’s desire to expand its 
network must also be viewed within the broader context of its daily commitment to sustainable development 
and protecting the environment. The Group also needs to satisfy growing demand caused by increased 
mobility among the local population, the industrial sector, and the growth in incoming traffic. 
Within this context, AdB is working to increase its long-haul intercontinental connectivity through direct flights 
and feeder services at intercontinental hubs, with a particular focus on strategic markets such as the United 
States, China and the Persian Gulf. At the same time, the Group is committed to expanding its network by 
offering new routes and increasing its frequency and capacity on existing routes. It also hopes to reduce 
traffic seasonality and promote flights during the winter season. In addition, the company is aiming to 
undertake actions to move new flights to (less congested) timeslots that help optimise airport facilities.  
The Group is also committed to promoting environmental sustainability by reducing the environmental impact 
of its aircraft through partnerships with its stakeholders and the local authorities. 
Our passengers 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
36 