 
 2.2 Developing infrastructure 
The  investments  outlined  in  the  Master  Plan  and  Regulatory  Agreement  are 
fundamental to the development of the Company's business. The strategy in question 
calls for expansion of the existing infrastructure through short/medium-term initiatives 
aimed at increasing capacity and improving service levels by means of internal retrofits 
and limited expansion, as well as medium/long-term initiatives that involve substantial 
extensions next to existing buildings, which will remain in full use. AdB’s infrastructure 
currently supports traffic of approximately 9.5 million passengers a year and is managed 
according to various planning instruments such as the Air Terminal Use Plan, the 
Extraordinary Maintenance Plan in the near term and the Masterplan in the medium and long term. More 
specifically, various projects are planned in the near and medium term with the goal of improving quality of 
service and operating processes before the planned infrastructure development work yields benefits in the 
medium term. Accordingly, the main projects in the near and medium term include: 
•  Redevelopment of part of the runway and fittings for taxiing aircraft  
•  The construction of new aircraft aprons to increase parking availability during peak times   
•  The expansion of security and passport controls aimed at increasing process capacity, thus 
reducing the time needed to check passengers, together with larger queuing areas, in order to 
ensure a more comfortable wait. 
•   The expansion of non-Schengen gaterooms via the building of a new limited-extension structure 
adjacent to the airside façade to provide more boarding gates  
•  The expansion of the departure baggage system to increase screening and management 
capacity, as well as the preparation of baggage trolleys for departing flights 
•  The construction of a new multi-storey car park to expand services for passengers and car rental 
companies 
•  The restructuring of the cargo area to ensure better cargo traffic management. 
Construction work on the aircraft de-icing stand was completed in 2019, along with work on the gangway 
connecting the People Mover to the passenger terminal, the company Training Centre and the airport 
community gym. In addition, construction began on a new cargo building, while a tender was opened for the 
construction of new offices in the check-in area. All short/medium-term construction plans to increase 
capacity have progressed.  
Medium/long-term initiatives are expected to have the greatest impact and will include phase 1 of the 
terminal expansion project aimed at increasing outgoing passenger capacity. This project is among the 
most important in the entire Master Plan since it affects many key elements of the airside departures area 
(flight  infrastructure).  The  phase  2  terminal  expansion  aimed  at  increasing  incoming  passenger 
capacity is the second-most important project in the Master Plan, since it affects many key elements of the 
arrivals area and some elements of the departures area. The expansion of the parking stands for long-
haul  aircraft,  directly  connected  to  the  passenger  terminal  by  airbridges,  will  enable  a  considerable 
improvement in the quality of service offered to both passengers and airlines, while development of the new 
cargo terminal will permit greater cargo volumes and provide cargo carriers with appropriate facilities to 
enable them to operate swiftly and efficiently.  
The development plan has been designed to make Bologna Airport one of the most modern, functional 
facilities in Italy and an important gateway 
to the city and region. The update to the 
Master  Plan,  required  to  improve  the 
airport to meet today’s needs, received 
technical  approval  from  Italy’s  National 
Civil Aviation Authority in 2017 and was 
then ruled exempt from the environmental 
impact assessment procedure in 2018. It 
obtained urban planning permission at the 
beginning of 2020. 
   
38 