 
Methodological note 
The Consolidated Non-Financial Information Report (also the “Report” or the “NFR”) of Aeroporto Guglielmo 
Marconi di Bologna S.p.A. and its subsidiaries (also hereinafter the “Group” or “AdB Group”) is the second 
edition of a document prepared in accordance with Italian Legislative Decree 254/2016 and subsequent 
amendments (implementing EU Directive 2014/95), as a communication tool for providing transparent and 
comprehensive information on the Group’s policies with regards to environmental, social and personnel 
matters, the protection of human rights and the prevention of bribery and corruption. The document outlines 
the Aeroporto di Bologna S.p.A. Group’s relevant activities and the main results and impacts, highlighting its 
commitment to creating sustainable value for the business and its stakeholders. 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option, which were published by 
the Global Reporting Initiatives in 2016 (a leading independent body1 that defines non-financial reporting 
models). The GRI G4 Airport Operations Sector Supplements were also used for some indicators. For further 
information  on  the  GRI  Standards  and  reported  indicators,  please  refer  to  the  table  annexed  to  this 
document. The figures and information refer to the reporting period ended on December 31, 2019. Pursuant 
to Italian Legislative Decree 254/2016 (hereinafter simply the “Decree”), the Report is published annually 
and, as provided for in Article 5 of the Decree, this document represents a separate report containing 
specific wording in order to bring it in line with the Consolidated Non-Financial Information Report required 
by law.  
The breadth and quality of reporting is dictated by the materiality principle, an element identified by the 
benchmark regulation and central to the GRI Standards: the matters dealt with in this report are those 
identified by materiality analysis, or those considered as material as reflecting the social, financial and 
environmental impacts of Group operations, or in terms of influencing stakeholders decisions.  The data 
reported in the Consolidated Non-Financial Information Report refers to the same companies indicated in the 
consolidated financial statements. The companies included in the consolidated financial statements are the 
parent company, Aeroporto Guglielmo Marconi di Bologna S.p.A. (also “AdB” or the “Company”), and the 
subsidiaries, Fast Freight Marconi S.p.A. (also “FFM”) and TAG Bologna S.r.l. (also “TAG”).  
Setting the document’s contents involved a specifically formed interdisciplinary working group coordinated by 
the Administration, Finance, Control and Investor Relations Departments, with the aim of facilitating the clear 
and precise identification of the information considered significant for stakeholders in accordance with the 
GRI Standards’ reporting principles of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability. The 
reporting process is based on the information systems used by the main corporate departments. The figures 
have also been prepared and checked by the various department heads, while the document as a whole was 
approved by the Board of Directors on March 30, 2020. This document is subject to limited examination 
("limited assurance engagement" according to the criteria indicated by the ISAE 3000 Revised standard) by 
EY S.p.A. which, at the end of the work performed, issued in accordance with Legislative Decree 254/16 and 
Consob Regulation No. 20267 of 2018 a specific report on the compliance of information provided in the 
non-financial  consolidated  report  drawn  up  as  per  the  same  Legislative  Decree  No.  254/16  and  in 
accordance with the reporting standard adopted. The NFS is also available on the corporate website. For 
further information, contact investor.relations@bologna-airport.it. 
Reconciliation table with Legislative Decree. 254/2016 
                                                
1The Global Reporting Initiative is a not-for-profit organisation founded in Boston in 1997 providing support in the reporting of sustainable performances of 
organisations of any size, sector or country. In 2001, it was recognised as an Independent Body by the United Nations. In 2002, the United Nations 
Environment Program (UNEP) formally recognised its principles and invited all UN Member States to identify an official UN-recognised body. 
5 