 
the airport grounds in order to satisfy growing demand. It was serviced by a shuttle service running to the 
passenger terminal. Operational from August to mid-October, it hosted over 3,000 cars, taking a significant 
load off other car parks and helping to reduce traffic congestion inside the grounds.  
In order to improve services for passengers who travel to the airport via public transport or taxis, the 
technical task-force (launched in 2018) continues to collaborate with the town council, the Bologna Fair 
Authority, T-Per (a local public transport company), taxis and chauffeur-driven hire car companies to optimise 
public transport services to and from the airport during fairs and events in the city. Initiatives such as the 
running  of  a  shared  taxi  service  during  trade  fairs  have  yielded  positive  results  and  have  helped  to 
consolidate the services on offer at the airport.  
Chauffeur-driven and private car hire services are becoming increasingly important with regard to airport 
mobility and interconnectivity. Leading car hire companies have consolidated the presence of their sales 
offices and operating facilities at the airport. As such, the airport now offers services run by nine operators 
representing a total of 17 commercial brands, all of which can be accessed in the arrivals lounge and in car 
park P3, next to the terminal. Passengers can also use the "Corrente" car sharing service, which is a free-
flowing electric car sharing initiative situated in car park P4. Additional vehicle stations will be made available 
near the passenger terminal in spring 2020. 
Mobility Management Agreement 
Given  the  greater  attention paid  to  sustainable  development  and corporate  social  responsibility, 
Bologna Airport is preparing to launch a Sustainable Mobility Plan for employees working in the airport 
sector,  thanks  to  Mobility  Management  agreements  signed  at  the  end  of  December  with  the 
Municipality of Bologna, and in collaboration with external partners.  
The Plan’s central focus is to launch an annual season ticket to be purchased by airport workers for an agreed price. 
The ticket will allow employees to use the Marconi Express People Mover shuttle, Tper suburban and intercity buses 
in the area surrounding Bologna, and Metropolitan Railway Service trains. The ticket will also come with a 100-minute 
Corrente car sharing voucher (new vehicle stations are being installed near the Passenger Terminal, inside the Wait 
Zone). The season ticket – which will be available for purchase on the online Tper/AdB platform and loaded onto a 
MiMuovo card – has been created from a MaaS (Mobility as a Service) viewpoint. This is a new way of planning and 
enjoying travel, and is designed to provide employees with access to all means of transport via a season ticket 
purchased from a shared platform. Users will also receive travel suggestions for easier and quicker routes.  
Bologna Airport is the first Italian airport to develop such a highly innovative and sustainable tool that benefits both the 
environment and the community, given its financial advantages and reduced journey times. AdB employees who 
continue to use their own car to commute to and from work are encouraged to make use of corporate carpooling via 
the Jojob app. Employees are incentivised via bonuses offered to those who make best use of the service (free 
company gym passes, bike sharing passes, Corrente car sharing passes and discounts on public transport).  
The company also promotes the use of bicycles by granting access to subsidies offered by the Municipality of Bologna 
to purchase bicycles and pedal-assisted cargo bikes (the benefit is open to all airport employees, even if they are not 
resident in the Municipality of Bologna). AdB will also be installing new bike parking spaces and racks at the airport.  
Following the Services Conference to approve the Masterplan, AdB is committed to improving its cycling accessibility 
in collaboration with the local authorities, both in the Municipality of Bologna and the Municipality of Calderara di 
Reno. As such, the airport hub will be included in the local cycle tourism network. The airport’s Sustainable Mobility 
Plan has mapped employee travel habits via an anonymous survey sent out to over 500 employees working at 
different airports. The aim was to identify new, cost-effective and sustainable transport solutions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
41 