 
2.4 Contributing to regional development 
Job creation 
The airport sector’s relevance to the local economy and community within it operates 
does not end with meeting a share of passenger and cargo transport demand; rather, 
it is key to growth and competitiveness. It is for this reason that it is fundamental for 
the airport’s managers to ensure that the local community is sufficiently accessible 
and  attractive,  out  of  an  awareness  of  both  the  airport’s  impact  in  terms  of 
employment, income and added value, and the effect that an adequate level of airport 
travel connections is capable of generating for the economy9.  
Considering the airport’s overall contribution, benefits are obtained in terms of jobs, value added and GDP, 
which have been estimated at the European level in a study by the Airports Council International Europe 
(ACI Europe). The data gathered by ACI indicated that collectively European airports contribute 12.3 million 
jobs, generate annual revenues of Euro 365 billion and contribute Euro 675 billion to gross domestic product 
– 4.1% of the European total.  
The economic impact broken down in the above terms consists of four different types: direct, indirect, spin-off 
and catalytic. 
•  The direct impact is that generated by the companies operating directly from the airport, whether 
based on the grounds or nearby.  
•  The indirect impact relates to the providers of goods, services and support for airport activity (such 
as food and beverages for catering, aircraft fuel, etc.).  
•  The spin-off impact is that generated by the employees of companies associated with airport 
activity, who spend money for their daily needs, in turn contributing to creating jobs in the relevant 
sectors.  
•  Finally, the catalytic impact refers to the way in which the presence of an airport facilitates the 
development of business and projects in other sectors of the economy. 
It can therefore be estimated that the Bologna Airport system generated over 21,000 jobs and contributed 
over Euro 1 billion to the local community in 201910. 
 
Distribution of value added 
                                                
9 CDP Industry review no. 6 - July 2015 - The Italian airport system 
10 Source: Estimate based on a calculator created by ACI Europe on the basis of a study conducted by InterVISTA in 2015. On ACI 
Europe’s website, in the members area, it is possible to calculate four different impacts generated by airports using the above-
mentioned calculator. 
 
43 