 
2.5.2 Innovation and digitalisation at the service of the business and passengers 
In order to support and improve all aspects of operations and generate Customer 
2019-2023 
loyalty,  the  Group  considers  it  key  to  develop  a  culture  of  innovation  which 
Innovation Plan 
revolves around the installation of technology that facilitates greater interaction 
with passengers and optimises the travelling experience. Bologna airport has 
invested significantly in all-round innovation in recent years by adopting sustainability and environment 
policies that support existing company processes, making sure to focus on its primary customer (the 
passenger).  Recent  collaboration  between  the  Quality,  Facilitation  and  Information  Communication 
Technology departments is a clear example of the direction the company has taken.  
At the end of 2018, AdB drafted an innovation plan for 2019-2023. The aim of the plan is to adopt a shared 
digital strategy, to improve the Group’s reputation by creating a smart, digital brand image, and to identify 
technologies to help provide customers with the very best experience by meeting their explicit and implicit 
needs through simple and innovative solutions. The Group hopes to be the “first mover” with respect to its 
targets by transforming ideas into concrete solutions. AdB aims to develop new initiatives and tools to 
support its agile structure and the business as a whole, and to create an ideas-based culture, in the hope 
that the most promising schemes can be turned into services and solutions. The Group also hopes to 
improve its ability to generate and share expertise, all while respecting the environment by promoting 
sustainability and engaging in relevant projects. 
On the basis of this plan, AdB is working on developing modern ICT solutions, adequate IT infrastructures, 
customer service solutions, and advanced digital services and innovations, including in the environmental 
field. The Group is hoping to achieve all this while making sure to provide its employees with training and the 
necessary skills to tackle digital disruption. Various projects included in the plan are dedicated to the 
environment, and as such, AdB has focused heavily on sustainability since 2019 (in areas such as employee 
awareness, collecting rainwater, reducing plastic consumption, and guaranteeing energy efficiency etc.). As 
regards Customer Service, during 2019, the airport carried out various Google Navigation Indoor initiatives, 
and installed family areas on both the land and air sides. These areas are equipped with interactive games 
and soft spaces to improve the experience of passengers travelling with children. New monitors and dynamic 
signs have also been set up to facilitate the airport experience.  
 
In 2018, the Airport also launched a digital transformation project that makes use of Cloud Computing and 
the valuation of data to offer a better experience to travellers. The customer relationship management (CRM) 
platform has enabled a comprehensive multi-channel experience in support of a flexible growth process and 
in response to the typically variable business requirements in the transportation sector, subject to peaks and 
seasonal traffic. Thanks to this new system, the Company is therefore obtaining multiple benefits: it can 
organise personal and Company data arriving from various channels into a centralised system, carry out 
marketing campaigns that are more targeted thanks to a database that is more complete, manage customer 
assistance  processes  in  a  more  integrated  manner  and  monitor  the  social  channels  to  obtain  useful 
information for improving customer satisfaction abreast of the times and with an increasingly digital society. 
AdB has developed various initiatives and projects in this regard, among which “Know Your Customer”, a 
project  aimed  at  improving  knowledge  about  customers  through  the  collection  of  data  with  Business 
Intelligence systems. The Company has also worked on the digitalisation of information, for example through 
the use of monitors positioned at the arrivals concourse land side and air side, at the check-in and the 
security check point, which allows the communication system to be more flexible and effective.  
51 