 
traditions in the area of food and beverage offerings. Strategically located based on passenger flows, the 
passenger terminal’s commercial premises extend over an area of 4,500 square metres that is home to 43 
merchants, including duty-free stores, food and beverage purveyors and retail shops.  
Product categories and concessionaires are selected with great care. AdB seeks to showcase top local 
products, particularly when it comes to food, a key aspect of the region’s identity for which it is renowned. 
Examples include the many stores and eateries that draw inspiration from local traditions in terms of their 
product assortment and design, while also offering top quality products, thus perfectly incarnating the 
delicious  food  that  is  typical  of  the  Emilia-Romagna  Food  Valley.  2019  also  saw  collaborations  with 
prominent representatives of both the local and Italian eno-gastronomic traditions.  
The promotion of local food and wine appears to be well received by passengers. This is confirmed by both 
internal analyses and market trends increasingly focused on local products and quality of the offer. The 
menu  management  and  product  rotation  also  appear  to  be  influential  aspects,  which  are  constantly 
monitored by AdB, in addition to price alignment and benchmarking. 
In 2019, the Audi Service Station was unveiled. This is the first collaboration 
Audi Service Station 
between an Italian airport and the German company, which will offer servicing 
YouFirst 
Marconi Business Lounge  and  maintenance  of  its  vehicles  as  part  of  the  travel  experience.  This 
significant partnership will allow airport customers to leave their car to be 
serviced while they travel, and to pick it up on their return, with any work carried out. 
In order to offer a unique experience to customers, the group has developed a series of premium services, 
aimed at further improving and enriching the customer experience. YouFirst, for example, is a personalised 
VIP service that offers passengers exclusive benefits.  
The Marconi Business Lounge is an exclusive area where travellers can relax before departure, also offering 
meeting and conference rooms for corporate events. In order to guarantee customer comfort, even at the 
busiest times, 2019 also saw restyling work carried out in the Lounge. Without increasing its surface area, 
the number of seats was increased by 40%, new spaces were created where passengers can relax before 
their flight, and a work zone with PCs and printers was introduced. The Lounge completes and enhances the 
airport’s commercial offering for both external customers (e.g. local communities, passengers) and internal 
customers (e.g. carriers, retailers, airport operators). The high level of satisfaction with the service is 
confirmed by the number of its users, which exceeded 160,000 in 2019. 
Constant monitoring is carried out on all qualitative aspects and many opportunities are created for feedback 
from partners involved in the service in various ways. The group promotes a range of initiatives to renew and 
expand premium services, including improvements to bar offerings, the development of a calendar of events, 
such as food and wine tastings, art exhibitions, concerts, and partnerships with local companies offering 
specific services to the guests of the Business Lounge.  
   
54 