 
2.5.5 Airport safety and emergency management  
Safety and Security are two very different but interrelated concepts. In the airport sector, these terms are 
defined as follows: 
 
  Safety: Safety requires an airport operations system that guarantees certain pre-established safety 
conditions, assesses its own effectiveness and corrects any non-conformities;  
  Security: Security requires procedures and resources to be targeted at preventing and mitigating 
acts of unlawful interference with the civil aviation system on the ground, on board aircraft and within 
the airport grounds.  
Safety 
AdB has developed for all parties operating airside its own Airport Safety Policy, as per the highest 
international standards, in line  with best practices  and  in compliance  with all  applicable national and 
international regulatory requirements. The Policy aims to guarantee adequate levels of safety, to prioritise 
safety among the objectives of all airside operations managers and to ensure that the Policy is understood 
and applied at all levels, internally and externally to the organisation. 
The Safety Policy is based on two strategic pillars:  
 
 
AdB believes that progress in the safe management of airport activities can only be achieved through the 
involvement of all personnel, operators, airport bodies and stakeholders in conduct and attitudes inspired by 
the very highest safety standards. 
Safety Management System 
The Safety Management System (SMS) is configured to guarantee pre-established safety conditions, to 
assess its own effectiveness and to implement any identified corrective and preventive actions. The main 
goal of the SMS is the prevention of accidents. This is pursued through the identification, evaluation, 
mitigation and containment, within acceptable and controllable levels, of safety-related hazards.  
Since the SMS concerns all airport safety activities, all airport bodies are required to  participate and 
immediately inform the Airport Manager of any safety issue, incident, inconvenience or event that has, or 
might have, compromised the safety of operations. Furthermore, all airport bodies are obliged to comply, 
providing the Airport Manager with all the documentation and information necessary to identify causes. 
Effective management of the SMS requires the participation, commitment, knowledge and experience of all 
airport personnel.  
The communication, information and promotion process is essential in engaging all airport parties in the 
pursuit  of  the  safety  and  security  objectives  and  for  the  effective  implementation  of  Group  policies. 
Cooperation between all relevant internal and external parties is the fundamental principle on which this 
process is based: in order to ensure an efficient, integrated approach, AdB assumes the role of coordinator 
between operational activities and the activities of the various airport bodies. 
   
55 