 
Security   
The Security services were taken into direct management by the Airport Manager, in accordance with 
Ministerial Decree No. 85 of January 29, 1999, and ENAC Communication of January 10, 2001, Protocol No. 
00200DG. The current legislation is comprised of the National Civil Aviation Security Programme (PNS) and 
European Regulation 1998/2015, as amended. In addition to these two main regulatory frameworks are 
certain other European Regulations and ENAC Circulars which regulate monitoring methods.  
Security’s current organisational chart stipulates that the Security Director also covers the role of Security 
Manager, and two subordinate departments, one Line and the other Staff. The line department works at the 
operational level performing the services granted under license by ENAC regarding checks to passengers 
and baggage (both hand and hold).  
The Staff department deals with aspects regarding the issue of permits for entry into the airport area, the 
preparation  and  constant  updating  of  procedures  on  security  checks,  and  the  dissemination  and 
implementation  of  such  procedures  by  security  personnel.  The  Staff  department  also  manages  and 
supervises all aspects of security concerning airport activities and quantifies, on the basis of scheduled 
flights and aircraft load factors, control times, the distribution of passengers at security stations and the 
number of required personnel and security guards. 
Security personnel 
In December 2019, AdB Security had a staff of 211 qualified security guards (GPGs), of which 56 in the position of 
Supervisor (SPV), and 7 in that of Security Passenger Manager (SPM). Security personnel operate during the entire 
time that departing flights are scheduled, and have the responsibility of correctly performing operational procedures 
and security checks on passengers, their hand luggage, hold baggage and goods, according to security regulations 
and the operational communications of Security Management.  
•  The recruitment of Security Personnel takes place through a first selection made by a specialised external 
company, on the basis of the provisions of Ministerial Decree 85/9916, during which candidates are sent to 
the State Police for background checks, before starting training, which is overseen by the Training Center.  
•  The training course comprises a theoretical and a practical part, and is given by an ENAC Certified 
Instructor. At the end of the course, a final exam is administered by the ENAC Commission.  
•  The hiring of security personnel takes place only after Formal Appointment by the Prefect under oath as 
required by Article 250 of the Implementation Regulation.  
•  Security personnel must carry out their work with utmost diligence, and are therefore monitored through 
Audit, Quality Control, Briefing, Performance System and TIP Library procedures (the latter involving 
examination  of  virtual  images  of  dangerous  items).  Performance  assessments  for  TIP  and  individual 
operators  takes  place  every  six  months,  and  are  organised  as  a  ‘cascade’  system,  meaning  that 
assessments are made by Supervisors (SPVs), who in turn are assessed by Security Passenger Managers 
(SPMs).  
In order to monitor the application of relevant legislation, AdB performs Quality Controls on a monthly basis, which, 
from September 2018, are performed by a new team established within Security Management. The control activity is 
carried out with the passage, through all airport checkpoints, of prohibited items and/or invalid access credentials. 
Cover Tests are carried out at least twice a month, involving the passage of ‘Sample Passengers’ through control 
stations with simulation explosive devices and prohibited articles. A “Quality Test Cover Report” is prepared after each 
activity. This is designed to demonstrate levels of efficiency, efficacy and quality in safety procedures, identify the 
shortcomings and non-compliances of safety services, and offer recommendations and corrective actions to reduce or 
eliminate these instances of non-compliance.  
During the year, passenger satisfaction regarding security remained consistently high, attaining, within the quality 
parameters  set  out  in  the  Airport  Operator  Service  Charter  (ENAC-GEN06  methodology)  98.2%  passenger 
satisfaction at baggage control and 97.7% in terms of the perception of personal safety and security at the airport.  
 
   
                                                
16 English language skills, Psychological aptitude test, Motivational interview, Individual interview, Suitability medical examination. 
59 