 
2.7 Investing in people and their professional development  
The  Group  also  strives  to  develop  those  who  work  at  the  Airport  and  build  an 
organisation  which  responds  to  the  evolving  demands  of  the  market  and  which 
supports the individual in their work. Skills, identity and passion for service quality are 
key  commitments  for  AdB  in  the  development  of  its  business.  People  play  a 
fundamental role at every level. Developed skills, individual identities and abilities in 
offering the highest level of customer service are essential factors for the success of 
the company in facing everyday and future challenges. 
AdB Group has adopted a Code of Conduct aimed at all employees, consultants and 
partners,  enshrining  the  company’s  values  and  ethical  principles,  and  providing 
guidelines for conduct that create a corporate climate of reciprocal trust and respect. 
The fundamental values socially and universally recognised by AdB are legality, integrity, ethics, respect for 
individuals,  quality  assurance,  human  and  environmental  health  and  safety,  fair  competition,  and 
transparency and truthfulness of information. Compliance with the Code of Conduct is both a shared duty 
and a right of employees, provides an additional protection for the airport community, and guarantees 
relationships  based  on  clarity  and  transparency.  The  Code  of  Conduct  supplements  the  Company 
Regulations in providing guidelines and rules of conduct and general safety in relation to the work duties of 
each  and  every  employee.  All  employees  are  therefore  required  to  perform  their  work  activities  with 
appropriate due diligence in the common interests of the company and of providing a quality service. 
2.7.1 Management of personnel  
With its workforce of 548 people at December 31, 2019, of which 47% women, the group sees the 
management  and  development  of  its  human  resources  as  a  driving  force  for  the  development  and 
competitiveness of the airport. People, and their individual skills and abilities in guaranteeing a quality 
service are fundamental components of the group’s business strategy. In recent years, changes in the socio-
economic context in which the airport operates have led to various positive changes in the approach to 
human  resources  management.  In  2019,  a  significant  intervention  was  made  in  terms  of  improving 
engagement, through a comprehensive welfare plan extending to all employees. Work which began in 2018 
on the continuous improvement of process optimisation also continued.  
As regards recruitment and hiring policies, new growth and development opportunities were created for 
employees through internal job postings and internal job opportunities. These involved the whole Group. In 
addition, the use of web and social channels has attracted young talent, and various collaborations with local 
universities have allowed the airport to take on trainees, students and research programme participants. AdB 
offers the opportunity for people to express their full potential as part of a dynamic company in continuous 
development.  The  Group  has  introduced  instruments  and  procedures  that  actively  guarantee  utmost 
transparency and fair treatment for all candidates. Roles, responsibilities and principles of conduct and 
monitoring to be respected during the selection procedure are set out, in full compliance with provisions 
preventing the offences referred to by Legislative Decree 231/2001 and the Anti-Corruption Policy. Finally, 
the airport was awarded the TOP CARRIERA 2018/2019 seal of quality by the publication Affari e Finanza 
(an insert of the newspaper La Repubblica) and placed ninth overall (and first among airports and airport 
services in Italy) in the rankings of the best workplaces in the transport and logistics sector, drawn up by the 
magazine Panorama. 
Attracting talent - Talent Program 
In order to capitalise on the resources present at the company, AdB coordinates a Talent Program aimed at 
identifying, attracting and retaining the best resources for meeting the Group’s business goals. The program focuses 
on increasing the retention of valuable personnel, to reducing turnover, and the related costs of recruitment, 
placement and training, to attracting talent from the labour market, and on improving the performance of the 
organisation through the individual performance, satisfaction and motivation of the company population. 
The Talent Program includes specific training programs on core competencies, participation in company task forces 
and specific project working groups, job rotations and training meetings with representatives from other airports or 
other sectors. In order to maximum the benefits of the project, AdB outlined talent areas from the outset, identifying 
useful skills and translating them into observable conduct and skill development goals for internal human resources. 
 
73 