 
for the various roles). On the launch of the Bologna-Philadelphia route, a training course was run by 
American Airlines for the three Ground Security Coordinators selected through an internal selection process 
among Security Supervisors. The course was held between Bologna and Dallas (USA), and totalled 173 
training hours per person. 
Sustainability Training 
Late 2019 saw the organisation of a workshop for all AdB staff, which was attended by more than 100 
people. Its subject was the 2030 Agenda - Sustainable Development through an action plan for people, 
prosperity and the planet. The course was designed to introduce and explain the 2030 Agenda and its 
17 objectives to all our staff, and above all to create awareness and motivate workers to carry out 
concrete actions, both at a personal and corporate level. It was also an opportunity to set out the many activities and 
numerous projects that AdB is already running or plans to run in relation to the 2030 Agenda. 
Finally, specific seminars on Agile working were run for the Management Board. Agile working is an 
innovative method based on continuous interaction with stakeholders, whose satisfaction is key to ensuring 
that projects are successful and that the organisation can develop. External training days were organised on 
the subject of Collective Leadership, held off site to improve concentration and encourage teambuilding. 
These aimed to create a strong connection between the Board, creating a high-performance team that is 
ready for future challenges. 
20,224 hours of training were provided in 2019, of which more than 10 
thousand were for obligatory training, divided amongst the various 
training and development activities, which include: 
Airside Safety Training: all  PRM: specific awareness training is 
employees and third-parties that  given to all workers who, in the 
manage airside services at the airport  fulfilment of their roles, deal with 
ADC (Airside Driving Certificate): 
received specific training to increase  passengers with reduced mobility 
airside workers are often required to 
their awareness of the importance of  (PRM), in order to ensure a discreet 
drive vehicles, and therefore undergo 
safety. This focused on how to safely  and attentive approach to the needs 
ADC training to allow them to do so. 
travel around the air-side apron,  of these passengers. More in-depth 
considering people, vehicles and  training is planned for specialist PRM 
aircraft.  workers, through specific courses. 
 
 
Digital Transformation 
One  of  the  main  challenges  facing  the  business  world  today  is  Digital  Transformation.  AdB 
comprehensively supports the development of digital transformation, as a way of ‘thinking digital’ - and 
not only ‘doing digital’ Interactive digital training courses and tools were introduced in this area in 2019. 
In the future they will also be accessible from mobile devices, allowing connection anytime, anywhere. 
Digital solutions dedicated to training (e-learning), such as micro-learning and flash-learning, reduce the time that must 
be dedicated to learning. These are training methods that provide training materials in short, easily accessible portions 
lasting 10-15 minutes, and often including an entertainment element (films, cartoons, games). As regards digital training, 
the Training Center has developed a Virtual Tour of the airside apron, a training module that uses an Oculus virtual 
reality headset to support classroom learning by providing a 360° airside view, with short descriptions at the virtual 
InfoPoint. It is also a learning opportunity for anyone not working at the site who therefore cannot visualise the apron or 
the operations that take place there. 
 
   
79 