 
system  of  industrial  relations.  Corporate  welfare  also  forms  part  of  the  more  sophisticated  corporate 
remuneration  policy  and  corporate  retention  system,  since  organisational  well-being  reduces  conflict, 
absenteeism and employee turnover. As early as  2014, AdB introduced flexible benefits23, which are 
accessible to all permanent employees. The Employee Results Bonus was introduced in 2017, and in 
addition, all permanent employees were given the possibility to convert the Bonus into the purchase of goods 
and services.  
Also included in the corporate welfare policy is working flexibility for non-shift employees, which allows a 
better work-life balance. For shift-workers, on the other hand, provisions are made to allow them to swap 
shifts with their colleagues. AdB also signed an agreement with the relevant Trade Unions to provide support 
during working hours for single parents of young children, establishing an “Hour Bank”, which collects 
holiday hours donated by other workers for the use of colleagues with disabled children, or those in 
particularly disadvantaged circumstances.  
There are also numerous initiatives promoted in the area of health and social security. First of all, AdB offers 
its employees better conditions than those provided for by sector collective bargaining, also thanks to 
specific agreements reached together with the corporate trade union. Thanks to the collaboration with the 
association ANT, the employees also have the possibility to carry out specialist visits on the prevention of 
melanomas and nutrition directly at the company. In 2019, these visits focused on the prevention of thyroid 
diseases and melanoma. In addition, since 2009, AdB has provided a free flu vaccination service, with the 
support of the diagnostic centre. Also in the area of health - and with a view to promoting a healthy and 
balanced lifestyle - in 2017, a largely organic food point was opened at the airport. This is accessible to 
those working at the airport on a daily basis, and is the location for meetings with expert nutritionists. Finally, 
a consultation point is available to all employees. This is staffed by a dedicated occupational psychologist, 
who provides support for employees in difficulty, whether at work or in their private lives. 
As in previous years, among the projects dedicated to workers’ children in 2019, AdB has collaborated with 
Intercultura to provide two scholarships for study abroad.  
AdB supports the balance between work and private and family lives through various initiatives. In 2018, for 
example, the ‘ComeTe’ service was introduced through an agreement with the social cooperative giving 
employees access to various services in order to facilitate the resolution of day-to-day and family problems, 
for example, in relation to care for the elderly or for children, through the provision of recreational activities or 
baby-sitting. Finally, in December 2018, the corporate carpooling project ‘JoJob’ was launched for the benefit 
of employees looking to save money and time through a valid commuting alternative. The JoJob initiative 
also benefits the company in terms of reducing its environmental impact, of de-congesting traffic and of 
managing parking.  
Finally,  a  new  gym  for  the  airport  community  and  passengers  in  the  Marconi  Business  Lounge  was 
developed in 2019 and inaugurated in January 2020. 
Pension plans  
AdB care for its employees by paying particular attention to complementary pension schemes. Since 1990, 
an  agreement  between  the  company,  the  trade  unions  CGIL,  CISL  and,  local  and  corporate  UIL 
representatives facilitated subscription to the ‘PREVAER Pension and Security Fund for Airport Workers’, 
with the aim of assuring all company employees additional and supplementary services to mandatory 
coverage.  Today,  the  company  makes  a  2.9%  contribution  to  the  Pension  Fund,  one  of  the  highest 
contributions within its category. Furthermore, in order to raise the awareness of the corporate population 
regarding supplementary pensions, specific training meetings have been organised to inform employees on 
the characteristics, opportunities and advantages of the fund, and on the opportunity to increase Results 
Bonuses by 20% by feeding them into the supplementary pension scheme.  
Both  the  Company  and  the  trade  union  organisations  continue  to  encourage  employees  to  join  the 
supplementary pension scheme, and 2019 saw an increase in the number of employees participating in the 
PREVAER Fund. 
 
                                                
23
AdB introduced flexible benefits through the Company Regulation in 2014, when the law did not allow for them to be contracted 
through trade unions. On expiration of the Regulation, the company deemed it opportune to contract the Welfare Plan through the 
various trade unions and the corporate trade union in 2017. 
81 