 
2.7.7 Occupational health and safety  
AdB  dedicates  considerable  attention  to  health  and  safety  issues  not  only  for  workers,  but  also  for 
passengers and all airport users in general. The Occupational Health and Safety Management System, 
conforming  to  the  OHSAS18001  Certification,  forms  the  basis  for  responding  to  current  applicable 
regulations concerning occupational safety. The Department of Health and Safety, in collaboration with the 
other organisational units, deals with activities such as risk assessment, improvement measure identification 
and specific training.  
Management of work-related stress: 
Risk assessment activity: research, 
consultation point with an occupational 
inspection cycles and monitoring    
psychologist  
Coordination activities with third parties, for 
Training and awareness-raising activities 
work carried out by suppliers 
 
Assessment activities are implemented through specific technical investigations and continuous cycles of 
inspections and supervision aimed at monitoring the effective application of health and safety rules and at 
ensuring their constant improvement. Considerable attention is also paid to coordination with third parties, 
concerning  activities  carried  out  by  the  Company’s  suppliers,  through  co-operation  and  co-ordination 
activities  designed  to  provide  information  and  assess  interference  risks. Within  the  framework  of  the 
protection of workers’ well-being, attention should be drawn to the company’s commitment to aspects of 
management of work-related stress, through the establishment of a listening disk manned by a Workplace 
Psychologist, available to all workers seeking support with work or personal issues. As regards collaboration 
and  awareness-raising  beyond  the  training  already  offered  to  employees,  risk  assessments  are  also 
published on the company website, as are procedures and documents on occupational health and safety, 
and on the promotion of a culture of safety. These are also available on the Company’s social network, with 
specific subjects focusing on the various relevant areas. In the coming years, AdB is committed to certifying 
the workplace safety management system according to the new ISO 45001 standard, aligning the system 
with the new company risk assessment process and implementing the SGSA anti-fire safety system. 
There were 10 accidents in 2019, of which six at work and four while commuting, continuing the downward 
trend that was recorded in 2018. Workplace accidents fell from 14 in 2017 to 9 in 2018, and finally to 6 in 
2019. The scope of the damages also declined, as shown by the “Lost day rate”. In the same three years, 
there were no deaths or cases of workplace illness. It is also important to highlight that, of the 10 injuries 
recorded, none was a “high-consequence work-related injuries 24“. The Group also gathered data on injuries 
to non-employed workers in 2019, i.e. handlers and temporary workers. During 2019, 37 accidents involving 
non-employed workers occurred, of which 32 at work and 5 while commuting. 
   
                                                
24“ “High-consequence work-related injuries” are defined as injuries lasting over 60 days and which, following an appropriate obligatory 
medical assessment, result in limitations or constraints related to the injury that last more than six months 
83 