confidentiality and professional behavior. Our audit firm applies the International Standard on
Quality Control 1 (ISQC Italia 1) and, as a result, maintains a quality control system that includes
documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional
standards and applicable laws and regulations.
Auditors’ responsibility
It is our responsibility to express, on the basis of the procedures performed, a conclusion about the
compliance of the DNF with the requirements of the Decree and of the GRI Standards. Our work has
been performed in accordance with the principle of "International Standard on Assurance
Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised) - Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of
Historical Financial Information" (hereinafter "ISAE 3000 Revised"), issued by the International
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) for limited assurance engagements. This principle
requires the planning and execution of work in order to obtain a limited assurance that the DNF is
free from material misstatements. Therefore, the extent of work performed in our examination was
lower than that required for a full examination according to the ISAE 3000 Revised ("reasonable
assurance engagement") and, hence, it does not provide assurance that we have become aware of
all significant matters and events that would be identified during a reasonable assurance
engagement.
The procedures performed on the DNF were based on our professional judgment and included
inquiries, primarily with company’s personnel responsible for the preparation of the information
included in the DNF, documents analysis, recalculations and other procedures in order to obtain
evidences considered appropriate.
In particular, we have performed the following procedures:
1. analysis of the relevant matters in relation to the activities and characteristics of the Group
reported in the DNF, in order to assess the reasonableness of the selection process applied in
accordance with the provisions of article 3 of the Decree and considering the reporting
standard applied;
2. analysis and evaluation of the criteria for identifying the consolidation area, in order to
evaluate its compliance with the provisions of the Decree;
3. comparison of the economic and financial data and information included in the DNF with those
included in the Aeroporto Guglielmo Marconi di Bologna Group's consolidated financial
statements;
4. understanding of the following aspects:
o Group's management and organization business model, with reference to the
management of the matters indicated in the article 3 of the Decree;
o policies adopted by the Group related to the matters indicated in the article 3 of the
Decree, results achieved and related key performance indicators;
o main risks, generated or suffered related to the matters indicated in the article 3 of the
Decree.
With regard to these aspects, we obtained the documentation supporting the information
contained in the DNF and performed the procedures described in item 5. a) below
5. understanding of the processes that lead to the generation, detection and management of
significant qualitative and quantitative information included in the DNF.
2 94