My childhood and the farming world where I was born have contributed to forming this vision, the great values that 
my parents have transmitted to me, ranging from commitment to life, respect for others and everything around us.  
True values that represent my wealth and that will never make me feel alone and on these bases "my human 
capitalism" was created with man at the centre trying to give it economic and moral dignity. At the same time, I try to 
promote these practices so that more people become aware of them. We always put the person at the centre of our 
work by guaranteeing the excellence of the services we offer to our customers and suppliers, while maintaining 
particular attention to dialogue with the communities in which we are present, aware that the true value of our work 
lies in the level of improvement of the quality of life that we manage to bring to them. 
We have created an innovative position, Compliance and Sustainability Officer, as for us compliance must go hand 
in hand with sustainability. 
Partnerships  and  activities  continued  with  international  institutions  aimed  at  both  the  traceability  and  the 
improvement of the life of some gold mining communities, with the aim of bringing the small miners out of illegality, 
guaranteeing them a profit, training and a safe and dignified existence. 
Thanks to our continuous and constant innovation, professionalism, the great sustainable commitment, Italpreziosi 
is increasingly a reliable and important partner in the world of precious metals.  
We are a company that has made excellence its creed and that has built its success on excellence thanks to qualified 
professionals who find in Italpreziosi the opportunity to express their skills and see their merits recognised.  
This report describes how we operate in an increasingly complex global context and how integrity towards 
responsible rules and behaviour represents our path for the conduct of our business because the above is inherent in 
our DNA, not only to support our reputation but also to strengthen competitiveness and be considered a partner you 
can rely on. 
Much has been done and much still to be done, but challenges are part of our history and with much determination 
and passion we contribute every day to building a better future. 
I can't help thanking people for their commitment, determination that they have put into action on our sustainable 
path, confident that all together we have contributed in some way to the improvement, even if small, of the economic 
and moral conditions of the human being. 
"I  ALWAYS  IMAGINED  TO  MAKE  PROFIT  THOUGH  WITH  ETHICS,  DIGNITY, 
MORALS AND LOTS OF ENERGY"  
Enjoy the reading, 
Ivana Ciabatti,  
CEO of Italpreziosi 


    7