 
  Quality 
Quality is everywhere, quality is in each of us. In the factory, in technical departments, in product 
departments, in after sales, in purchasing, in sales and marketing and in communication. Quality 
means keeping the factory clean, having the right tools and the appropriate assembly equipment, the 
provision of training and information at all levels, ensuring that people work in safety and that 
machinery complies with the standards required by applicable regulations. It means compliance with 
product development rules, as well as the inclusion of the exact tolerances in designs. We need to 
make quality and safety a strength and to encourage it as a corporate culture. 
  We are Biesse 
“Strength lies in differences, not in similarities.” Never stop being passionate about your work, never 
stop wanting to learn new things. Always be proactive and open to change, never polemical. Be 
curious, get to the root of a problem, be reactive and quick to tackle and resolve it, go and see for 
yourself, bypass the hierarchy, if need be, and do not be afraid to make a decision. Always be willing 
to listen and give advice. 
Biesse Group around the world 
The Group's internationalisation process is one of the aspects of its business strategy that has 
contributed to its success around the world. 
Over the years, the Group has worked on growing its sales network with the intention of covering the 
global market as extensively as possible and by getting closer to the customer, inclusive of via the 
expansion of showrooms and campuses, as well as the organisation of events and by being present 
at the main trade fairs around the world. Moreover, the application of effective tools for sharing and 
technical-commercial support, combined with a continuous training process, has enabled the Group 
to consolidate its partnership with a solid distribution network in the various sectors. As far as 
manufacturing is concerned, in addition to the Italian plants that handle production that generates 
most of Biesse's sales around the world, the Group has two manufacturing sites in India (Bangalore) 
and China (Dongguan). 
10 
2019 Sustainability Report 