 
Biesse 
Biesse is the specialised brand associated with the manufacture and marketing of wood processing 
machinery. Since 1969, this business has designed, manufactured and marketed a complete range of 
technologies and solutions for the furniture, windows and doors and wood building components 
industries.  
The Biesse brand offers solutions for the processing of technological, packaging, construction and 
visual communication materials, including the processing of expanded and compact plastic materials, 
composite materials and cardboard. 
Intermac   
Intermac is the brand under which the Group, since 1987, has designed, manufactured and marketed 
machinery for the processing of glass, stone and metal for flat glass and stone processing businesses 
and the furniture, construction and automotive industries. Born from an intuition to transfer the 
leadership it  had  acquired  in  wood  processing  centres  to  the  glass  industry,  Intermac  has 
revolutionised this industrial segment, having quickly become one of the most recognised brands in 
this sector.  
HSD Mechatronics  
The Group directly designs and manufactures all high-tech components for its machinery. Thanks to 
its  mechatronics  division  (HSD),  the  Group  manufactures electrospindles,  5-axis  heads,  bevel 
gearboxes and drilling units for numerical control processing centres. These are key components that 
help  ensure  that  customers  will  benefit  from  high  performance and  a  competitive  advantage. 
Electrospindles  and  technologically  advanced  components  for  metal,  metal  alloys,  composite 
materials  and  wood  for  automotive,  aerospace,  consumer  electronics,  robotics  and  furniture 
manufacturers and the construction industry. 
Diamut  
Under the Diamut brand, the Tooling division manufactures and markets tools for the processing of 
glass, stone and ceramic. Its synergy with Intermac has enabled it to develop a range of tools, which 
in terms of reliability, have become a benchmark in the market. For more than 20 years, it has offered 
a complete range of processing solutions that are used on both the Group's machinery and on 
competitors' machinery. 
Biesse Group not only offers high quality machinery, components and complete systems, but also 
countless services aimed at fully meeting its customers' expectations. Through dedicated personnel, 
the  Group  provides  professional  pre-sale  consulting  services,  aimed  at  assisting  customers  in 
choosing the best product to meet their needs, and continuous after sales assistance to ensure the 
correct installation and start-up of machinery, software and systems, as is also the case for the 
maintenance thereof over the years.  
Our history  
Biesse was founded in 1969 as a company dedicated to the design, manufacture and distribution of 
wood processing machinery. In a few years, the company became an integral part and engine of the 
Italian furniture industry and conquered the entire country. With the opening of the first foreign 
subsidiary in 1989, a strong internationalisation process was launched that helped to establish the 
brand around the world.  
The Group's history is a journey made of ambitious choices, collaborations and investment in research 
that have made it possible to manufacture state-of-the-art machinery. Its history was influenced by 
the genius and foresight of the founder, who surrounded himself over the years with strategic skills 
12 
2019 Sustainability Report 