 
Corporate governance 
Biesse S.p.A.'s corporate governance system is compliant with the principles set out in Borsa Italiana's 
Corporate Governance Code and with international best practice.  
On 13 March 2020, the Board of Directors  approved  the report on corporate governance and 
ownership structure pursuant to Art. 123-bis of the Consolidated Finance Act, relating to financial year 
2019. This report has been published on the Company's website www.biessegroup.com in the 
“Corporate Governance” subsection of the “Investor Relations” section and explicit reference is made 
thereto as required by law.  
Biesse S.p.A. has adopted a traditional administration and control model, which requires general 
meetings of shareholders to be held and the appointment of a Board of Directors, a Board of Statutory 
Auditors and independent auditors. The corporate bodies are appointed by the shareholders in general 
meeting and have a three year mandate.  
The presence of independent directors, as defined by the Corporate Governance Code, and the role 
performed thereby within the Board of Directors and on corporate committees (Control and Risks 
Committee, Related Party Transactions Committee and Remuneration Committee), constitutes an 
appropriate means of ensuring an adequate balancing of interests of all shareholders and a significant 
level of discussion during meetings of the Board of Directors. 
In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, the Group has also adopted an internal control 
and risk management system, structured on the basis of the CoSO Report – Internal Control 
Integrated Framework, an authoritative international standard. The control system is compliant with 
the main corporate governance regulations and guidelines, such as: 
 
  Law 262/2005 (Savings Law) 
  Legislative Decree 231/2001 (Administrative liability of entities) 
  Consob Regulations concerning Related Party Transactions 
  Law 190/2012 (Anti-corruption) 
 
Figure 4. Biesse S.p.A.'s Administration and Control Model
 
15 
2019 Sustainability Report 