 
Business ethics and integrity 
All business activities are conducted in line with the Group's Code of Conduct, in order to ensure full 
compliance with regulations in force at local, national and international level. The Code of Conduct is 
the  official  document  that  sets  out  the  ethical  and  behavioural  values,  commitments  and 
responsibilities to be complied with in the conduct of business affairs by Group companies. Moreover, 
it governs the body of rights, duties and responsibilities that Biesse expressly assumes in dealings 
with parties with which it interacts in the conduct of its business activities. The Code of Conduct 
together with other documents relating to business ethics and integrity are available on the Group's 
website in the “Corporate Governance” subsection of the “Investor Relations” section.  
During the course of 2019, no cases arose of non-compliance or pecuniary sanctions imposed on 
Biesse Group concerning the following areas: 
  Environmental laws and regulations 
  Impact on health and safety of products and services offered 
  Social and economic laws and regulations 
Organisational, Management and Control Model pursuant to Legislative Decree 
231/2001 
Biesse S.p.A. and its main Italian subsidiaries3, have adopted an organisational, management and 
control model (hereinafter OMCM) in order to prevent, as far as possible, the commission of offences 
under Legislative Decree 231/2001, such as environmental offences, corporate offences, offences 
arising from a breach of health and safety at work regulations and corruption offences. Biesse S.p.A.'s 
OMCM is publicly available on the company's website in the “Corporate Governance” subsection of 
the “Investor Relations” section, whereas the OMCM of the other companies have been made available 
to employees via the corporate intranet. In order to actively promote business ethics and integrity, the 
persons most involved and senior management receive periodic training on issues pertinent to 
Legislative Decree 231/2001. Specifically, in order to reach the largest number of people possible with 
training courses on the foregoing topic, in 2019, training initiatives were held involving approximately 
2500 employees and other external workers. 
No matters were reported to the Supervisory Body in 2019 via the reporting channels available to all 
interested  parties  for  the  communication  of  unlawful  conduct  pursuant  to  Legislative  Decree 
231/2001 and the OMCMs. These channels are designed to ensure the protection of the identity of 
informants in accordance with Law No. 179 of 2017 (so-called whistleblowing law). 
Fight against active and passive corruption 
In order to promote and strengthen its commitment to counter corruption, Biesse Group has adopted 
an Anti-bribery Code of Conduct4, which sets out the rules of conduct that all employees and other 
workers  must  observe  in  the  conduct  of  business  to  ensure  compliance  with  anti-corruption 
regulations in force.  
The Code, which has been distributed to all Group companies, has made it mandatory to apply the 
relevant principles and rules of conduct for the purpose of the reasonable prevention of active and 
passive and direct or indirect corruption offences involving Italian or foreign private or public persons.  
                                                           
3 HSD. S.p.A., BRE.MA. Brenna Macchine S.p.A., Uniteam S.p.A. and Viet Italy S.r.l. 
4 The Anti-bribery Code of Conduct is available on the corporate intranet and has been published on the company's website 
in the “Corporate Governance” subsection of the “Investor Relations” section”. 
18 
2019 Sustainability Report 