 
Specifically, the document sets out the rules of conduct to be observed in connection with various 
activities, such as: 
  Dealings with the public administration 
  Facilitation payments 
  Loans to political parties 
  Donations 
  Sponsorships 
  Gifts, presents, hospitality and entertainment 
  Dealings with third parties 
As a sign of their commitment to the fight against corruption, in addition to the Code, the Group 
companies, which have adopted an OMCM pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/01, have specific 
procedures that set out the rules of conduct to safeguard against the risk of public sector corruption 
associated with state funding, hygiene and safety at work and taxation. Furthermore, as a safeguard 
against the risk of private bribery, these companies are subject to periodic audit cycles. In the last year, 
no cases of active or passive corruption have been confirmed within the Group.  
Human Rights  
The Group recognises the intrinsic value and rights of every person and is committed to guaranteeing 
the dignity and professional and personal development of its employees and other workers in the 
conduct of activities carried out in the name of or on behalf of the Group. For this reason, the Group 
constantly strives to ensure safe, fair and non-discriminatory workplaces, in compliance with the 
relevant national and international regulatory framework, and inspired by the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights proclaimed by the United Nations and by the fundamental International Labour 
Organization (ILO) conventions). In particular, Biesse Group rejects all forms of forced, compulsory or 
child labour and is committed to not establishing relationships with suppliers that directly or indirectly 
exploit and use child labour.   
In addition to the Code of Conduct, the Ethics and Values Policies5 address further the ethical and 
moral principles that guide business conduct.  
The ethnic, religious and cultural diversity that characterises the Group's employees around the world 
is considered to be a source of competitive advantage. On account of the nature of the risk identified 
in relation to business activities, during the course of 2019, it was not deemed necessary to perform 
a further analysis of risks specifically associated with a potential violation of human rights.  
Antitrust 
The  Group  has  adopted  an  Antitrust  Code  to  ensure  compliance  with  legislation  concerning 
competition and market protection in the various countries in which it operates. The document is a 
follow-up to the Code of Conduct and develops, in particular, the section relating to competitive 
practices, as well as providing guidelines on conduct and omissions that comply with or violate 
antitrust legislation.  
The Group firmly believes in lively competition in the various business sectors in which it operates and 
its aim is to compete in a legitimate, loyal and ethical manner in full compliance with competition 
protection rules. The rules set out in the document are designed to contribute to correct competitive 
market dynamics, in order to strengthen competition and the economic efficiency of a free market. 
                                                           
5  The Ethics and Values Policies are available on the Group's website in the “Corporate Governance” subsection of the 
“Investor Relations” section. 
19 
2019 Sustainability Report 