 
As part of this process, the Group has mapped the most significant risks linked to sustainability issues, 
in line with those already identified and agreed with the main control bodies for enterprise risk 
management purposes. Set out below are Biesse Group's main sustainability risks: 
 
STRATEGIC  OPERATIONAL 
 
●  Trends in the global economy and changes in global  ●●●●● Sustainable management of the supply chain; 
  geopolitics;  ●●●  Transparent management of the Group's image 
●  Competitive environment and cyclicity of relevant  and of its products and services; 
  industrial sectors;  ●  Ability to attract and retain talent; 
●●●●●●
Stakeholder expectations;  ●  Development of human resources and skills at all levels; 
 
●  Ability to offer innovative products and services to  ●  Health and safety of people; 
customers 
  ●  Cooperation with workers' associations and unions; 
(IoT 4.0);  
  ●●●●● Cyber security – Information Security and Privacy;  ●  Sustainable management of energy consumption and 
●●●  atmospheric emissions (climate change); 
Direct and indirect impact of the business on the 
  locality and on the community;  ●  Conscious use of resources and sustainable waste 
●  Business continuity management.  management. 
 
 
 
FINANCIAL & REPORTING  COMPLIANCE 
 
●  Fluctuation in prices of raw materials and components;  ●  Ethics and integrity in business management and in the 
 
●  Ability to source adequate financial resources to meet  preparation of corporate documents; 
  funding requirements;  ●  Active and passive corruption in the public and private 
●●●●●●   Traceability of data and information relating to  sector; 
  sustainability.  ●●●●●● Risk management and compliance. 
 
 
KEY – Relationship between identified risk factors and areas of sustainability pursuant to Legislative Decree 
254/2016. 
●  ●  ● 
 Environmental;   Social;   Personnel-related;  
●  ●  ● 
 Human rights;   Fight against active and passive corruption;  Economic/Financial6. 
 
The management and monitoring of these risks is an integral part of the Group's operating business 
model. The safeguards in place for identified risks, as far as the most significant sustainability issues 
for Biesse Group and its stakeholders are concerned, relate to organisational and control models and 
policies developed by the Group. These include: adoption of a Code of Conduct, an Anti-bribery Code 
of Conduct and an Antitrust Code applicable to all Group companies; adoption by Biesse S.p.A. and 
the main Italian Group companies of an OMCM pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/01 (“Model 231”); 
adoption of specific policies concerning sustainability, quality, environment, health and safety, ethics 
and values applicable to all Group companies; maintenance, with a view to continuous improvement, 
of  a  Quality  Management  System  certified  to  UNI  ISO  9001:2015  standards  and  the  gradual 
implementation of initiatives designed to improve product quality and reliability from a customer 
satisfaction perspective;  constant monitoring of health and safety conditions in the workplace and of 
any environmental, social or labour law non-compliance and the main impact generated or sustained 
in connection with the Group's activities; monitoring of energy consumption, implementation of energy 
efficiency improvement initiatives and, where possible, production/purchase of energy originating 
                                                           
6 Area not specifically mentioned by Art. 3 of Legislative Decree 254/2016. 
21 
2019 Sustainability Report 