 
Materiality analysis 
Biesse Group has implemented a materiality analysis process to provide a correct presentation and 
understanding of the activities of Biesse Group, its performance, its results and the impact thereof on 
environmental, social and personnel-related areas, on respect for human rights and on the fight 
against  active  and  passive  corruption.  The  analysis  was  performed  by  applying  the  following 
methodology: 
1.  Identification of sustainability topics 
In order to identify the sustainability topics most closely related to the sector in which Biesse Group 
operates,  an  analysis  was  conducted  of  the  main  sustainability  frameworks  recognised 
internationally, such as UN Global Compact, UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) contained in Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development 
and GRI Standards. 
Consultation was also made of various external and internal as well as the main national and 
Community regulations and guidelines relating to information of a non-financial nature, such as 
Legislative  Decree  254/2016,  European  Directive  2014/95/EU,  European  Commission 
Communication entitled “Guidelines on non-financial reporting” 2017/C 215/01 and the document 
entitled “Your guide to ESG reporting” as issued by the London Stock Exchange Group. 
2.  Quantitative and qualitative analysis of identified topics 
During the course of 2019, a survey was undertaken with the objective of updating the materiality 
analysis with reference to the degree of materiality attributed by Biesse Group's stakeholders to 
the identified sustainability topics. This initiative saw the involvement of various categories of 
stakeholders (customers, suppliers and trade partners, employees and their families, financial 
community,  universities  and  research  centres,  sector-specific  media  and  magazines,  public 
administration, government entities and control bodies and trade unions). The assessment was 
subsequently supplemented by a qualitative analysis that took account of the environment in 
which the Group operates and of the results of previous stakeholder engagement initiatives. With 
respect to the positive and negative economic, environmental and social impacts generated by the 
Group, it should be noted that the results of internal analysis undertaken in 2018 have been 
confirmed. 
3.  Preparation and update of the materiality matrix 
The assessments made were then presented in a materiality matrix. More specifically, the 
horizontal axis indicates the materiality of the identified topic to the Group (internal analysis), 
while the vertical axis indicates materiality to the stakeholders (analysis of outsiders' views). The 
matrix was submitted for approval by Biesse S.p.A.'s Control and Risks Committee (CCR) on 30 
October 2019. 
 
 
 
 
31 
2019 Sustainability Report 