 
The supply chain 
Of the many components of the Group's technological solutions, quality of supply is an essential 
element for the development of reliable products. 
The Group adopts a responsible approach for the management of the entire supply chain, from small 
local businesses to large multinational organisations, by creating relationships that go beyond mere 
trade transactions and by encouraging lasting and mutually satisfactory collaborations with more 
qualified partners that share the Group's principles. 
It is in the Group's interests to make use of evaluation tools to verify the suitability of suppliers with a 
view to an ongoing relationship; the evaluation takes account of ethical issues and product quality and 
safety. For this reason, relationships with suppliers are developed in a fully transparent manner, based 
on General conditions of supply, which are applied to all contracts, on Quality standards, which are 
directly referred to on orders and that are pertinent to the activity that the supplier undertakes to carry 
out to ensure the quality of the finished product and on the Code of Conduct, which includes specific 
references to respect for human rights, environmental protection and the health and safety of workers. 
In addition to the above, with a view to a virtuous process of continuous improvement, the Group has 
adopted a Suppliers Quality Manual, which contains key information on the procurement process and 
on the quality management system. In preparing this document, the intention was to create a tool to 
clarify in advance the expectations and requirements to be met by the suppliers, in order to facilitate 
communication with all trade partners and ensure optimal performance of the entire supply chain in 
accordance with the main sustainability criteria. Specifically, Biesse Group asks its suppliers to 
guarantee  high  quality  standards,  to  comply  within  their  own  organisation  with  all  regulations 
governing health and safety in the workplace and with applicable environmental legislation.  
The development and retention of suppliers' technical skills is considered to be a technological, 
innovative and competitive growth factor. Accordingly, the Group encourages its territorial partners to 
embark on growth paths in terms of skills and organisation. 
Within each production unit, inspections are performed of all incoming purchased materials. The 
accuracy of the inspections depends on the complexity of the part: they may range from simple 
dimensional and visual checks to the use of three-dimensional measuring machines, hardness testing 
of materials and checks on the type of material used. To ensure a transparent and reliable process, 
which guarantees a quality product, the Group also makes use of external laboratories for specific 
metallography,  electron  microscopy,  chemical  analysis,  mechanical  and  destructive  tests.  All 
measuring instruments used are periodically calibrated to ensure precise measurement. Moreover, 
next-generation testing systems have been developed and introduced to improve the inspection 
process  for  purchased  electrical  assemblies  and  process  control  methodologies  have  been 
introduced in line with the IATF 16949 Automotive Standard and with ISO 9001:2015. 
In order to assess the quality and safety of their products, suppliers are subjected to daily monitoring 
via dedicated software, which takes account of the quality failure rate (INQF), production stoppages, 
the  level  of  service  and  the  supplier's  organisation  subsequent  to  audit.  The  aforementioned 
indicators, duly weighted based on the results of the audits conducted at the selection phase, 
contribute to the determination of the merit rating assigned to each supplier, which also takes account 
of their internal organisation and the process control methods adopted thereby. An analysis of the 
causes of production stoppages has led to the implementation of continuous improvement activities, 
which have achieved a notable decrease in the number of stoppages. 
45 
2019 Sustainability Report 