 
In fact, it is the Group's belief that growth can be solid and continuous over time only through specific 
investment in the development and refinement of its employees' skills.  
In 2019, the Group provided over 120,000 hours of training to its employees, consisting of training for 
blue collar workers, technicians and field engineers, occupational health and safety, anti-corruption, 
Legislative Decree 231/2001, cyber security and privacy, soft skills and professional development. 
The recruitment and induction of young people requires a significant effort by the Group to provide 
training on technical and managerial skills. In this regard, the Group has continued with its Future Lab, 
which is designed for young employees and that aims to provide customised skills development and 
professional growth paths. During the course of 2019, in addition to having commenced the third 
edition of Future Lab, which involved approximately 80 young graduates in the year just ended, a new 
training programme has been launched, namely, Future Lab Master, which is dedicated to certain 
skills, such as public speaking and time management, marketing and finance. The entire project 
provided approximately 5,000 hours of training in 2019. 
The attention given by Biesse Group to customer satisfaction, the pursuit of service excellence via use 
of the SOPHIA digital platform and the development of the regional network have required greater 
investment in terms of training for Service staff. In this regard, the Service Academy acts as a training 
and support centre for Biesse Group's entire service network, including the Group's technicians and 
dealers, as well as customers' operators and maintenance personnel. The objective of the Academy 
is to provide a guided, customised learning path, encompassing classwork, coaching, assessments 
and certifications, based on standardised methods and documentation. The first recipients of Service 
training included newly hired technicians originating from local schools and universities with which 
Biesse Group collaborates.  
Specifically, approximately 900 hours of training were provided in 2019 to the Group's hotliners, in 
order to raise their awareness of the importance of improving not only their technical skills, but also 
soft skills associated with the ability to communicate with customers and interlocutors. Moreover, 
advanced courses have been introduced on the entire portfolio of machinery produced by Biesse 
Group, as well as troubleshooting courses designed for the Group's technicians and customers, in 
order to increase their diagnostic skills. 
Biesse Group organises training weeks held on the Pesaro campus for Group and trade partner 
employees around the world, dedicated to product innovations and new sales tools. As regards Sales 
Academy courses targeted at the Group's sales personnel, over 4,500 hours of training were provided 
during the course of 2019. Sales employee training is periodic and continuous and addresses the 
technological evolution of products and new developments concerning services offered by the Group, 
in order to always guarantee value added for customers. 
The need to transfer lean methods and tools “from the factory to the offices” has also required the 
organisation of a new "Lean Office" course, focused on the use of just in time techniques in the office, 
totalling more than 200 hours. As evidence of the attention given by the Group to all aspects of its 
business ethics and integrity, during the course of 2019, various on-site and remote involvement, 
information and training sessions were held on Legislative Decree 231/2001, reporting channels 
available for the communication of unlawful conduct pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/2001 (so-
called  whistleblowing  law),  the  Code  of  Conduct,  anti-bribery  and  human  rights  that  involved 
approximately 2,800 employees.  
In order to be compliant with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (GDPR), during the course of 2019, a training 
session was held in a lecture theatre for Biesse Group's privacy contact persons, namely, those 
responsible for the practical and operational management of processing of personal data in the 
various functions of the company. As regards the foregoing topic, an e-learning course has also been 
launched that will gradually be rolled out to all employees of the Group companies. In order to make 
53 
2019 Sustainability Report 