 
employed  in  Italy,  provides  for,  in  accordance  with  the  collective  labour  agreement  for 
metalworkers, the possibility for each employee to convert his/her corporate performance bonus each 
year to flexible benefits.  
In view of the possibility and the individual choice to convert all or part of the bonus to corporate 
welfare benefits, the value of the flexible benefits made available on the corporate platform will be 
increased by the Group to the extent of 13% of the amount of the accrued bonus. 
In addition to the foregoing, the Group offers a canteen service to employees in the main production 
plants  in  Italy  and  abroad,  a  transport  service  for  workers  in  Pesaro  and  Bangalore  and 
accommodation for employees of the Chinese production plant. 
During the course of 2019, as far as Italian Group employees are concerned, the corporate partnership 
scheme was revised and extended, with the objective of obtaining beneficial terms for local and 
nationwide recreational activities. Furthermore, in collaboration with Coldiretti, a weekly market is held 
on the Pesaro Campus to enable employees to buy seasonal products from local farmers. 
Benefits and remuneration 
The  Group's  remuneration  policy  is  based  on  incentive  schemes  designed  to  recognise  the 
commitment and merits of employees, while, at the same time encouraging a sense of belonging, 
attracting excellent resources from outwith the Group and aligning employees' interests with the 
objectives of sustainable value creation for shareholders over a medium to long term time frame. 
To guarantee fairness and transparency, the Group has designed a remuneration system for executive 
directors and key managers in line with the size and organisational characteristics of the Group and 
with the market in which it operates. This remuneration envisages an annual fixed component and a 
variable component, linked to the achievement of specific earnings based and non-earnings based 
performance objectives. The variable component of remuneration is paid upon the achievement of 
predetermined earnings and/or individual targets, by means of two incentive schemes, one of which 
is short term (MBO) that envisages the award of an annual bonus based on the achievement of 
quantitative and qualitative objectives, while the other is medium to long term (LTI) and envisages the 
payment of a three-year bonus subject to the achievement of earnings and financial targets.  
A far as benefits are concerned, the Group has committed and continues to commit itself to 
guaranteeing its employees transparency and clarity. Disbursement mechanisms may vary, not 
dependent on different contractual forms (full-time, part-time, permanent or temporary), but on 
different geographical areas, because relevant regulations may include or exclude certain services.   
Diversity and social inclusion 
Biesse Group acknowledges the centrality of human resources in the belief that the key factor of 
success of every enterprise consists of the professional contribution made by its employees, in a 
climate of loyalty and mutual trust. Accordingly, for the purposes of personnel selection, recruitment 
and career advancement, the Group performs assessments solely based on a matching of expected 
profiles to required profiles and on transparent and verifiable considerations of merit, in accordance 
with established procedures. The management of employment relationships is oriented towards 
guaranteeing equal opportunities and facilitating the professional development of employees. 
The Group is committed not to make any direct or indirect discrimination in the personnel selection 
and evaluation process, based on trade union, political, religious, racial, language or gender related 
reasons. Group policies encourage the selection and recruitment of local personnel, including senior 
management, at all locations where Biesse operates around the world.  
58 
2019 Sustainability Report 