 
supporting the development of additive manufacturing (or 3D printing) projects, a revolutionary 
Industry 4.0 technology, whose main advantages are greater freedom of design and use of materials 
strictly necessary for the creation of a product, thus guaranteeing waste reduction and a positive 
environmental impact. Research will be focused on the optimisation of processes, the development 
of design software and the pursuit of new materials.  
Again in collaboration with DIISM, 2019 saw the completion of a project concerning the study of 
technologies for the innovation of products and processes that fall within Industry 4.0 scenarios, with 
a particular focus on predictive maintenance services. 
Collaboration with Urbino University on communication and business support 
Biesse Group has participated in a business game launched as part of the master's degree in 
Communication and Advertising for Organisations offered by Urbino University. The second year 
students challenged each other by presenting five different communication projects focused on 
competitor analysis, communication strategies and creative ideas. A member of the team that 
presented the winning project will be selected for an internship with the Group. The project forms part 
of the Group's collaboration with the academic world and its desire to invest in the development of 
talent and skills. 
Biesse Manufacturing India – Institute of Wood Science & Technology 
In line with the global vision of openness and dialogue with the world of education, collaboration has 
continued in India with the Institute of Wood Science & Technology, which works under the Indian 
Council of Forestry Research and Education of the Ministry of Environment and Forests. The project 
is governed by a Memorandum entered into between the Institute and Biesse Group that requires a 5-
year commitment to provide infrastructures and financing needed, with the objective of facilitating the 
dissemination of knowledge of the most innovative wood processing technologies. This collaboration 
has resulted in the launch of a one year diploma course that focuses on advanced wood processing 
technologies and of three brief courses aimed at students with basic knowledge, with the aim of 
training future operators and technicians and, in the long term, of encouraging participants to pursue 
business and personal growth objectives. The first diploma course was successfully completed in 
2019.  
 
Biesse Manufacturing India – support to the locality  
During the course of 2019, Biesse Manufacturing India donated books and English dictionaries to the 
Government Higher Primary School, located near Makali and supported the creation of an IT laboratory 
at the Moraji Desai Model Residential School in Chikkaballapur. 
Lastly, Biesse provided computer equipment to the police station in Nelamangala, making it possible 
to offer a more efficient service to users in the locality. 
Institutional communication and transparency 
In order to guarantee the utmost transparency vis-à-vis stakeholders, in recent years Biesse Group 
has extended and improved its internal and external communication channels and has expanded the 
traditional range of communications addressing the financial performance of the business.  
In pursuit of the same objective, the Group has adopted a policy, which sets out the rules for use of 
brands and guidelines for the application of visuals, as well as for various communication tools, such 
as letter heading, trade fairs, product catalogues and digital communication. Furthermore, internal 
guidelines have been prepared for communication via social networks, in order to enable each 
63 
2019 Sustainability Report 