 
Group overview 
Biesse Group is a multinational leader in technology for the processing of wood, glass, stone, metal 
and technological materials. It designs, manufactures and distributes machinery, integrated systems 
and  software  for  furniture,  windows,  doors,  building  components,  nautical  and  aerospace 
manufacturers. With its head office located in Pesaro, it operates through 12 manufacturing facilities, 
38 companies around the world and selected dealers and counts among its customers prestigious 
Italian and international design brands. Founded in 1969 by Giancarlo Selci, Biesse S.p.A. has been 
listed on the STAR segment of the Italian Stock Exchange since June 2001 and is currently included 
in the FTSE IT Small Cap index. As at 31 December 2019, the Group had approximately 4,200 
employees and other workers around the world. 
Vision 
Biesse Group's vision is embodied by the term "Think forward": a stimulus to look ahead and anticipate 
the future by setting new standards to support technological innovation and digital transformation. 
Mission 
To  create  and  share  innovation  through  the  conception,  implementation  and  dissemination  of 
integrated solutions and advanced services that enable us to produce better, more and safely, thus 
helping our customers to excel and succeed. 
Values 
Biesse Group is a global business with a strong Italian identity and is capable of communicating with 
its stakeholders based on the core values that characterise the Group: innovation, reliability and 
respect.  
Innovation is the driver of Biesse Group in its continuous pursuit of excellence to support the 
competitiveness of each customer. It constitutes the continuous development of solutions to provide 
customers with greater manufacturing efficiency, while simplifying their operations. It also constitutes 
the pursuit of automation and the simplification of processes designed to create safer working 
conditions.  
Reliability comes not only from the technologies produced and the services offered, but also from a 
clear and proper relationship with all stakeholders, supported by the sharing of knowledge and 
experience and founded on a climate of mutual trust and transparency.  
Respect is a sense of profound responsibility towards each of the stakeholders in contact with the 
world of Biesse, as well as being a transversal and intrinsic value in every aspect of one's working life. 
Respect for workers, which translates into the complete fulfilment of commitments made; respect for 
the work of our customers, which takes the form of the design and production of efficient and safe 
solutions and of the commitment to maintain standards of excellence in the level of service; respect 
for suppliers via the agreements entered into therewith; and respect for the locality and the community 
in which the business operates.  
Respect forms the basis for every activity, in the full awareness that, currently, doing business primarily 
means a common thought process that contemplates a more sustainable economic, social and 
environmental future. 
The values that guide the Group are also summarised in the ten principles laid down by the founder, 
Giancarlo Selci: 
 
 
8 
2019 Sustainability Report 