 
“Ten principles to better serve our customers while continuing to grow together” 
  The business's capital: its people 
An irreplaceable element. Let us go to the people, let us learn with them and let us live with them: let 
us listen, motivate and involve. Push people to better themselves, to make suggestions and to make 
decisions, but also to be creative and innovative and to learn to work in teams. Help develop leadership 
and other skills. Lead them by example and with passion.  
  Tidiness and cleanliness 
We need to keep our workplace clean and tidy: in the factory, in the office, everywhere. A place for 
everything and everything in its place. We need to clean and we need to create standards and visuals 
to maintain order via the encouragement of self-discipline. 
  Suppliers, our partners 
Excellent quality, low costs, certainty in delivery times. But also willingness to invest in organisation, 
innovation and co-design and with strong problem solving skills. We choose partners with these 
characteristics and invest in them, thus helping them to grow. We respect them, but challenge them 
to improve. 
  New products 
Standardisation, simplicity, innovation. One less part is one less code to handle and one less code to 
purchase, to check, to assemble and to store in inventory. We need to bombard new products during 
the prototype development stage with tests and trials. That which is not validated is not sold nor added 
to the product price list. Reliability, reliability and… again reliability. 
  Innovation is our engine 
Innovation comes from passion and the desire to realise one's ideas. We make long-term investments 
in innovation projects. We innovate products, thus setting new standards in the market and innovate 
sales and marketing with creative ideas. We need to encourage our people to embrace the culture of 
innovation. Innovation is in our DNA. The past, the present, the future. 
  Communication 
We should talk more and write less. Speaking to a colleague is often faster and more effective than 
writing lengthy emails. We need to develop the ability to synthesise in any form of communication. We 
should communicate internally and externally, in a direct, concise and consistent manner. 
  See for yourself 
Do we want to learn something new, solve a problem or check something out? We should go in person 
to see for ourselves. In the factory, in the office, in a production unit or at a supplier's premises. Even 
managers and executives should go and see for themselves if they want to fully understand the 
situation and make the right decisions. Be wary of those who never enter the factory. 
  Waste reduction 
We should question the general situation regarding all business processes to bring out the issues. 
Scrap is waste par excellence. Obsolete materials, reworking, overproduction and excessive stocks of 
raw materials and finished products are also a waste, as is the case with interminable meetings 
without constructive conclusions and unwillingness to accept responsibility. Cost reduction starts 
with waste reduction in every process. 
 
9 
2019 Sustainability Report 