05_PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY CHAIN_SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT
    
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY FCA was also named “Best in Class” by the Great Lakes Women’s 
Business Council for Excellence in Supplier Diversity, and was 
awarded Corporation of the Year by the Michigan Hispanic Chamber 
FCA’s commitment to diversity and inclusion also extends to our 
of Commerce for leadership and commitment to the Hispanic 
supply chain. FCA believes the diversity of our suppliers should 
business community.
reflect the diversity of our workforce and the communities in which 
we do business. Diversity Suppliers are those that are majority- The FCA High Focus program works with suppliers with greater 
owned by recognized minority groups or by women, and which are  potential for diverse spend and equips them with the tools and 
certified by relevant government councils. support to achieve their diversity targets. The diversity spend status 
of each supplier is monitored monthly and reviewed quarterly with 
We work to include diversity and inclusion considerations as an 
them. FCA has provided consistent support for our High Focus 
everyday practice in our dealings with our employees, our dealers, 
suppliers, resulting in placement of more than €9.3 billion with 
our suppliers and our customers. With a supplier diversity and 
certified minority suppliers since the program began in 2010.
development program that spans 35 years, FCA spent more 
than €5.7 billion with Tier 1 and Tier 2 minority suppliers in 2018.   FCA supports inclusion across our supply base through the 
The FCA US suppliers’ External Balanced Scorecard includes a  annual Matchmaker event, which creates opportunities for diverse 
metric for diversity sourcing at the Tier 2 level. suppliers. Completing its 19th year, Matchmaker provided more 
than 200 minority-owned, women-owned and veteran-owned 
businesses access to our Tier I suppliers and to decision makers 
within our procurement organization. In 2018, the event included 
numerous training sessions, including the FCAInnovate! session, in 
which nine minority suppliers were given five minutes to pitch their 
companies’ innovative solution to FCA Purchasing representatives 
and the High Focus Suppliers. The event also included the W2W 
€5.7+  Mixer, a speed-networking event that brought together more than 
Billion 100 female entrepreneurs and industry leaders to present their 
spent with  businesses and ideas to FCA executives.
minority suppliers Training,  mentorship,  scholarship  support,  sponsorships, 
membership and Board and committee participation are some of 
the ways we support organizations that include the National Minority 
FCA US was named Corporation of the Year - Tier II Program 
Supplier Development Council, the Canadian Aboriginal and Minority 
by the National Minority Supplier Development Council for our 
Supplier Council, the Women’s Business Enterprise National 
success in requiring our Tier I suppliers to do direct business with 
Council, WBE Canada and WECONNECT International. In addition, 
diverse suppliers. The Women’s Business Enterprise National 
we support veteran-business ownership through membership with 
Council recognized FCA US as one of America’s Top Corporations 
the National Veteran-Owned Business Association and the National 
supporting Women’s Business Enterprises, the only national award 
Veteran Business Development Council.
honoring corporations for world-class supplier diversity programs 
that reduce barriers and drive growth for women-owned businesses.
“
We work to include diversity and 
inclusion considerations in our dealings 
with employees, dealers, suppliers 
and customers.”
101