05_PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY CHAIN_LOGISTICS OPERATIONS
    
LOGISTICS OPERATIONS
Key elements of successful logistics operations  Other FCA affiliations that foster eco-friendly logistics include our 
include reducing stock and material handling, and  partnership with SmartWay, a collaboration between the U.S. 
delivering only what is needed, where it is needed,  Environmental Protection Agency and the freight industry. The 
at the right time. At FCA, we work together with  partnership has expanded to Canada and is designed to help 
companies reduce the carbon footprint of their transport operations. 
our suppliers and logistics partners to improve 
In Mexico, carriers participate in a similar program called Transporte 
processes by re-engineering material flows and 
Limpio (Clean Transportation).
packaging, and applying just-in-time methodology.
FCA Global Purchasing and Supply Chain serves as the link between 
Group plants, the supplier network and dealers by managing  TRANSPORT OPTIMIZATION 
transports among these parties. The logistics operations are 
handled by a variety of internal and external operators, depending on  Optimizing transport networks, modes and capacity improves 
the origin and destination of the goods. The Company has adopted  efficiencies in the supply chain. By tailoring leading global practices 
Logistics Guidelines that provide direction on how to optimize  and initiatives and limiting the travel required to move finished 
transport fleet characteristics and apply methodologies to reduce  vehicles and parts, FCA’s logistics operations supply our plants and 
the impact of freight and vehicle movement. dealerships effectively and efficiently.
The Company’s logistics approach focuses on: Network optimization focuses on the route design from origin to 
destination and minimizing the distance and cost. Efforts such 
• the optimization of logistics flows and the adoption of low-
as removing intermediate storage locations and considering the 
emission transport vehicles to improve performance and minimize 
locations of potential suppliers are among the actions taken. 
impacts on the environment
One example in 2018 involved reducing the distance parts were 
• the implementation of emerging solutions and technologies to 
shipped internationally by optimizing consolidation centers. This 
protect parts and decrease the use of packaging and protective 
change avoided more than 1.3 million km and approximately 
materials to save resources.
1,500 tons of CO .
2
We monitor our logistics performance to identify areas of 
Mode optimization concentrates on the type of transportation such 
improvement and actions needed, and transparently communicate 
as road, rail and ocean. The Group explores alternative solutions 
our related environmental and social impacts to stakeholders.
for both parts and vehicle distribution, especially for long distance 
shipments. For example, we optimized the transport mode from 
truck and rail to sea for finished vehicles destined to U.S. dealers 
from Mexico, avoiding more than 3,600 tons of CO in 2018.
2
Efforts continued in 2018 to implement new, or extend existing, 
LOW-EMISSION TRANSPORT intermodal  solutions  which  combine  different  modes  of 
transportation. Initiatives where sea transportation for vehicle 
distribution replaced rail transport in Europe led to savings from both 
The use of low-emission trucks for transport contributes to reducing 
the economic and environmental perspectives. Approximately 270 
FCA’s environmental impact. Where possible, the Group transport 
tons of CO emissions were avoided in 2018.
fleets are adopting alternative fuel solutions to improve performance. 2
Capacity optimization centers on maximizing the use of available 
The Group’s own transport fleet - FCA Transport in the U.S. and 
space while considering equipment capacity and routes. For finished 
Canada, and i-FAST Automotive Logistics in Europe - includes trucks 
vehicles, a smart-loading method is used to increase the number of 
that run on compressed natural gas (CNG) or liquefied natural gas 
units on rail cars by combining vehicles of various dimensions to fully 
(LNG) for the delivery of finished vehicles. This fleet of nearly 200 
utilize rail capacity. This process of optimizing the loads reduces the 
trucks achieved a reduction of approximately 3,500 tons of CO 
2 number of rail cars necessary, increasing efficiency and reducing 
emissions in 2018.
costs as well as carbon emissions.
103