05_PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY CHAIN_LOGISTICS OPERATIONS
    
Additionally, a new cubing methodology for parts was introduced  • Packaging insert reuse programs implemented during 2018 led to 
for inbound truck transportation. We avoided more than 4,000 tons  the diversion of approximately 100 tons of packaging waste from 
of CO and reduced transport by approximately 4.2 million km by  landfill and saved more than €140,000.
2
working with partners to optimize daily material releases and more  • For  international  shipments,  several  density  improvements, 
fully utilize transportation resources. packaging optimization initiatives and the shift to different materials 
resulted in a reduction of nearly 500 tons of wood and more than 
70 tons of cardboard.
PACKAGING AND PROTECTIVE 
MATERIALS PARTS DISTRIBUTION CENTERS
FCA works to reduce packaging and protective material consumption  FCA has more than 50 Parts Distribution Centers (PDC) worldwide 
while meeting quality requirements and reducing the risk of damage.  which are responsible for warehousing and managing the efficient 
Each packaging solution must be uniquely adapted to both the  delivery of spare parts to our dealers and distributors.
individual part and the destination plant. To reduce waste, this also 
Our PDCs are progressively adopting World Class Logistics (WCL), 
means identifying or creating a reusable solution when possible. 
an approach based on World Class Manufacturing, that seeks 
Where reusable containers are not the optimal solution, the Group 
to enhance safety, ergonomic and eco-compatibility as well as 
seeks to apply recovery processes which enable repurposing of the 
transport flow optimization. WCL also helps to significantly reduce 
material.
the environmental footprint of logistics activities at PDCs, reducing 
Investments in the returnable container fleet and improvements in  waste while enabling a productive and efficient high-volume flow of 
container fleet management allow greater flexibility in scheduling and  goods and materials.
decreased demand for expendable packaging. Initiatives include:
The PDCs in Centerline and Winchester (U.S.) achieved the WCL 
• A program to recycle more than 136,000 wooden pallets saved  Bronze Level in 2018, along with the None and Volvera (Italy) PDCs 
over €330,000 in 2018 while lowering the environmental impacts  which were already Silver Level. In addition, all FCA Parts Distribution 
of producing and delivering those pallets.  Centers located in the U.S., Canada and Mexico are ISO 14001 
• FCA  optimizes  the  management  of  returnable  containers  in  certified, with 12 of these sending zero process waste to landfill. Two 
North America through a Regional Container Pooling Center  U.S. PDCs achieved LEED certification; the Romulus facility is a U.S. 
for upstream freight. This process efficiently directs containers  Green Building LEED Gold certified building; the Winchester facility is a 
where needed, resulting in a reduction in transportation costs,  U.S. Green Building LEED Silver certified facility.
travel time for containers, handling costs, and possible double 
FCA works to improve efficiency in the transportation of parts both to 
handling.  In  2018,  the  Regional  Container  Pooling  Initiative 
and from our PDCs. FCA is piloting a process for more efficient trailer 
avoided approximately 1,700 tons of CO emissions.
2 loading, showing more than a 20% increase in trailer cube utilization and 
• FCA continued container audits in 2018, resulting in the recovery 
an overall reduction in distance traveled.
and proper allocation of more than 80,000 returnable containers 
from 221 supplier locations in North America. These reclaimed  To more efficiently stock and move parts, we have developed a 
assets  further  reduced  the  need  for  expendable  cardboard  demand forecasting tool to better predict which parts and quantities are 
packaging. needed in specific markets. The goal is to provide excellent service for 
customers by meeting the demand for parts, while maintaining optimal 
inventory levels.
“
All FCA Parts Distribution Centers  
located in the U.S., Canada and Mexico  
are ISO 14001 certified. ”
104