02_BUSINESS MODEL AND GOVERNANCE_MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
    
ENGAGING STAKEHOLDERS  Engaging Hourly Plant Workers
To extend the reach of our sustainability messaging, we engaged 
Gathering stakeholder input to determine materiality is an ongoing 
approximately 700 hourly workers at our Mirafiori plant in Italy 
process. As a global enterprise with a complex, intricately connected 
through a specially-designed sustainability training event. This 
value chain, FCA engages with a wide range of stakeholders, 
training consisted of six modules, each lasting four hours, on FCA’s 
including employees, customers, suppliers, dealers, institutions, 
impact related to a wide variety of economic, environmental and 
investors, trade unions, associations and local communities. 
social topics. Employees gave the training high marks, when asked 
Because they either affect or are affected by our decision-making 
to evaluate its effectiveness.
processes and associated actions, they help us to better identify 
risks and opportunities, as well as align our objectives to social, 
New Employee Orientation
technological and regulatory changes around the globe.
In 2018, FCA conducted a number of activities among our newly-
Our FCA sustainability-focused Stakeholder Engagement Guidelines 
hired employees to promote sustainability awareness and encourage 
form the basis for this continuous dialogue. They help define the 
them to become sustainability advocates. A dedicated focus on 
goals of the dialogue, set the criteria for identifying and prioritizing 
sustainability was included in new hire orientation sessions and 
stakeholders, and provide a general framework for sustainability-
round table talks in various locations.
related stakeholder engagement activities.
We annually conduct surveys and stakeholder engagement activities  Sustainability Boulevard - Innovative Training Program
related to sustainability topics, and work to expand and innovate our  FCA’s innovative learning program, the Sustainability Boulevard, 
dialogue with stakeholders in the belief that these activities are an  was extended into 2018. This virtual platform engaged employees 
essential part of a robust sustainability program. worldwide by testing their sustainability knowledge and offering 
In each of the regions where FCA operates, our stakeholder initiatives  ways they can contribute to the Company’s sustainability profile. 
are adapted to locally relevant topics. The Sustainability Boulevard represents one area, or “district,” of our 
game-based learning project around which new training programs 
The regional results from our stakeholder engagement survey and 
are being developed. Nearly 40,000 employees had the opportunity 
events are analyzed to address differences and guide, globally, the 
to participate, with approximately 1,900 actively engaged with the 
review of potential updates in FCA’s material sustainability topics.
learning game within the platform. In 2018, this initiative received the 
In 2018, more than 5,000 internal and external stakeholders  HR Excellence & Innovation Award. The Award is open to companies 
worldwide  completed  our  revised  online  survey  regarding  operating in Italy with the purpose of disseminating best practices in 
sustainability topics. We also gathered qualitative data and captured  the workplace and human resource management.
some key topics and concerns through a free text field in the survey, 
intended to explore new or emerging material topics. Sustainability Business Challenge
Our “live,” or face-to-face, stakeholder events each year reflect our  Top performers from the Sustainability Boulevard training were 
efforts to reach a broad spectrum of key stakeholders of all ages.  invited in 2018 to participate in a Sustainability Business Challenge 
We work with representatives across FCA to identify which groups  offered jointly by FCA’s Training Management and Sustainability 
or individuals can most effectively help us explore the relevant and  organizations. This initiative assigned participants from seven 
material topics we identified for 2018. Below are some examples of  countries  a  real  business  case  related  to  enhancing  FCA’s 
our 2018 engagement activities. sustainability profile. Through teamwork, the selected employees 
built connections across several regions and business functions; 
learned more about FCA’s sustainability practices; and developed 
Engaging Employees concrete solutions to communicate FCA’s sustainability approach 
inside and outside the Company, including ideas for employees to 
FCA employees play a particularly vital role in our sustainability efforts  contribute directly to FCA’s activities. The teams’ final proposals were 
and are the focus of several stakeholder engagement activities each  evaluated by a Steering Committee consisting of FCA executives, 
year. Our interaction with employees serves a two-fold purpose: to  providing an opportunity for participants to interact with senior 
communicate to them the importance of the work they do every day  management.
to strengthen FCA’s sustainability profile, and to learn potential areas 
Following completion of the Business Challenge, participants 
for improvement from them.
were surveyed about their experience. Fully 100% of respondents 
reported that their understanding of sustainability topics improved 
during this initiative.
14