06_SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION_DEFINITIONS, METHODOLOGY AND SCOPE
    
DEFINITIONS, METHODOLOGY AND SCOPE
The FCA NV Sustainability Report, now in its 14th  activities  within  the  Components  segment  are  no  longer 
edition, is a voluntary document issued by the  considered a separate reportable segment as defined by IFRS 8 
Group according to GRI Sustainability Reporting  and are reported within “Other activities.” Other activities include 
the results of our industrial automation systems design and 
Standards  issued  in  2016  by  the  GRI-Global 
production business and our cast iron and aluminum components 
Reporting Initiative(1) to provide stakeholders a 
business, as well as the activities and businesses that are not 
comprehensive picture of FCA activities, results 
operating segments under IFRS 8 – Operating Segments.
and commitments in the economic, environmental 
• the term “customer” as used in this Report refers to the end user 
and social spheres. of our products or services.
This appendix provides a methodology guide. Unless otherwise indicated or required by the context, the 
information and data contained in this Sustainability Report relate to 
Unless otherwise specified or required by the context in which they 
financial year 2018 (January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018) and to all 
are used:
FCA companies worldwide falling within the scope of consolidation 
• the terms “FCA,” “Group” and “Company” refer to all  at December 31, 2018.
companies  consolidated  within  Fiat  Chrysler  Automobiles 
In order to ensure that information is comparable and meaningful 
N.V. for accounting purposes (see subsidiaries consolidated 
over time, some data for past years was restated to ensure 
in the FCA NV Annual Report) 
comparability in terms of scope. This report excludes information 
• the term “company” is used with reference to a selection among 
relating to our Magneti Marelli business(2) to allow comparability with 
the following entities: FCA Italy, FCA US, Maserati, Comau, Teksid, 
the Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements, where Magneti 
FCA Services and other companies
Marelli’s operations met the criteria to be classified as a disposal 
• the term “FCA US” refers to all companies consolidated within FCA 
group held for sale and a discontinued operation pursuant to IFRS 
US LLC for accounting purposes (see subsidiaries consolidated 
5 - Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations. 
in the FCA NV Annual Report)
Information relating to 2017, 2016 and 2010 has been re-presented 
• the term “FCA Italy” refers to all companies consolidated within 
to exclude Magneti Marelli. For historical data and information 
FCA  Italy  S.p.A.  for  accounting  purposes  (see  subsidiaries 
previously published and over which the independent auditor carried 
consolidated in the FCA NV Annual Report) out a limited assurance engagement, please refer to 2017 and 2016 
• the term “operating segment” refers to the segments of the  Sustainability Reports respectively.
Group that are regularly reviewed by the Chief Executive Officer 
We monitor our operations through the use of several non-generally 
for making strategic decisions and allocating resources and 
accepted accounting principles (non-GAAP) financial measures: 
assessing performance. They include four regional mass-market 
Net debt, Net industrial debt, Adjusted Earnings Before Interest and 
vehicle operating segments: EMEA (Europe, Russia, Middle East 
Taxes (Adjusted EBIT) and Adjusted net profit; for reconciliations of 
and Africa), NAFTA (U.S., Canada and Mexico), LATAM (South 
each of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly 
and Central America) and APAC (Asia and Pacific countries) and 
comparable measure included in our Consolidated Financial 
the Maserati global luxury brand operating segment. The results 
Statements, refer to the 2018 FCA Annual Report on the Company’s 
of our Magneti Marelli business were previously reported within 
website at www.fcagroup.com.
the Components segment along with our industrial automation 
systems design and production business and our cast iron and  The exclusion of any geographical area, Group company, or specific 
aluminum components business. Following the classification of  site from the scope of reporting is attributable to the inability to 
Magneti Marelli as a discontinued operation for the years ended  obtain data of satisfactory quality, or to its immateriality in relation 
December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 (refer to the 2018 FCA  to the Group as a whole, as may be the case for newly-acquired 
Annual Report, Note 3, Scope of consolidation), the remaining  entities or production activities that are not yet fully operational.
(1) The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a multi-stakeholder process for the development and disclosure of Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards offer an 
international reference for the disclosure of governance approach and of the environmental, social and economic performance and impacts of organizations.
(2) The exclusion only concerns Magneti Marelli discontinued operations; selected minor activities have remained in scope and data related to these have been included throughout the Sustainability 
Report within “Plastic Components”, a portion of “Other Activities”.  
135