06_SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION_DEFINITIONS, METHODOLOGY AND SCOPE
    
In some cases, entities that are not consolidated in the financial  Quality of Information
statements were included in the scope of reporting because of their 
significant environmental and social impacts. In particular: The quality of the information contained in the Sustainability Report 
is supported by compliance with the following principles:
• Data on occupational health and safety relates to 96 of the 102 
plants(3) (covering approximately 99% of plant workers),(4) to office  • stakeholder inclusiveness
facilities (in total covering approximately 100% of Group employees),  • sustainability context
and to four plants of companies that are not fully consolidated,  • materiality
including one joint venture in Turkey and three in China. • completeness
• Data on manufacturing environmental and energy performance  • accuracy: provision of adequate levels of detail
refers to 96 of the 102 plants(5) (covering nearly 100% of the  • balance
Group’s industrial revenues),(6) and to four plants of companies  • clarity
that are not fully consolidated, including one joint venture in  • comparability
Turkey and three in China. • reliability
• timeliness
Data reported as a measure of FCA’s impact on the environment 
consists of both absolute values, directly correlated to production  Preparation of the Sustainability Report is part of an annual reporting 
volumes  and  reporting  boundaries,  and  normalized  values.  process subject to audit, analysis and approval by a number of 
Normalized environmental performance indicators are presented in  individuals and entities. FCA continues to use our best efforts to 
order to ensure data comparability from year to year and enable  ensure the accuracy of the sustainability information contained in 
operational trends to be evaluated. Due to the significant variation in  this Report.  Any forward-looking statements or other information 
types of production lines (vehicles, engines, etc.), it is not possible  contained in this document speak only as of the date of this document 
to present normalized data at the Group level. Normalized data  and the Company disclaims any obligation to update or revise publicly 
presented in the “Production” section for energy, air emissions,  forward-looking statements or other information.
water and waste refers to the mass-market vehicle assembly and 
The document is:
stamping facilities, which account for more than half of the Group’s 
• prepared by the FCA Sustainability Team that coordinates and 
environmental footprint.
engages Group operating segments and regions and relevant 
The year 2010 is used as the baseline to measure progress to FCA’s 
functions
environmental targets because 2010 was the first year FCA US was 
• approved by the Sustainability Disclosure Committee and 
included in the scope of the Group.
presented to the Group Executive Council, a group led by the 
Data was collected and reported with the aid of existing management  CEO and composed of senior leadership from regional operations, 
control and information systems, where available, in order to  brands, industrial processes, and support/corporate functions
ensure reliability of information flows and the correct monitoring  • presented to the Governance and Sustainability Committee,  
of sustainability performance. A dedicated reporting process was  a subcommittee of the Board of Directors of FCA NV, in the form 
established for certain indicators, using electronic databases or files  of a management summary of principal achievements and future 
populated directly by the individuals or entities responsible for each  plans
aspect worldwide. • subject  to  a  limited  assurance  engagement  by  an  external 
independent audit firm (i.e. Deloitte & Touche S.p.A.) in accordance 
Unless otherwise indicated, all data presented in the Report refers 
with the criteria established in the “International Standard on 
to the International System of Units and may be subject to rounding. 
Assurance  Engagements  ISAE  3000  (Revised)  –  Assurance 
In some cases, rounding of a very low number may result in a report 
Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial 
of zero.
Information” (ISAE 3000 Revised), issued by the International 
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board for limited assurance 
engagements. The statement of limited assurance describing the 
activities carried out and the expression of opinion is provided at 
pages 139-140.
• presented together with the Annual Report at the Annual General 
Meeting of FCA NV to provide a complete, current overview of the 
Group’s financial, environmental and social performance
• available for download at no cost from the Sustainability section of 
the Group’s public website (www.fcagroup.com).
(3) Data was not considered material, and was thus not reported, for 6 plants in start-up or closing phase.
(4) Plant workers are defined as all employees located at a particular site, including workers assigned to manufacturing, other associated units (quality control, logistics, etc.) and to research and development. 
(5) Data was not considered material, and was thus not reported, for 6 plants in start-up or closing phase.
(6) Revenues attributable to activity of plants directly controlled by the Group.
136