06_SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION_ABOUT THIS REPORT
    
ABOUT THIS REPORT
Reporting period  Assurance
Financial year 2018 (January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018) The Report has been submitted to assurance by an external 
independent audit firm, Deloitte & Touche S.p.A., in accordance with 
Reporting cycle  the criteria established in the International Standard on Assurance 
Annual Engagement 3000 - Assurance Engagements other than Audits or 
Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000), issued by 
Date of publication  the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board for limited 
April, 2019 assurance engagements.
Deloitte & Touche S.p.A. is officially authorized to conduct ISAE 
Document formats 
3000 assurance audits. The statement of assurance describing the 
PDF activities carried out and the expression of opinion is provided at 
pages 139-140.
Report scope and boundary
The information and data relate to FCA companies worldwide falling  Previous report 
within the scope of consolidation at December 31, 2018. The 2017 Sustainability Report was made available at FCA NV’s 
Annual General Meeting on April 14, 2018.
Financial figures reflect those reported in the 2018 FCA NV Annual 
Report.
Contact 
Report content  Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V.
Registered Office: Amsterdam, The Netherlands
The selection of topics for this Report is based on the results of 
Amsterdam Chamber of Commerce: 60372958
our Corporate priorities, the dialogue with stakeholders, the Global 
Corporate Office: 25 St James’s Street, London SW1A 1HA U.K
Reporting Initiative Standards requirements and other sustainability 
ratings and rankings. This Report includes material aspects as  Your opinion is important to us. Please contact the Sustainability 
well as topics which are not material, but which may be of interest  Team with any questions or suggestions.
to selected stakeholders. Additional environmental, social and 
sustainability@fcagroup.com
governance indicators are reported in the Facts & Figures section.
sustainability-emea@fcagroup.com
sustainability-nafta@fcagroup.com
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 
sustainability-latam@fcagroup.com
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: 
sustainability-apac@fcagroup.com
Comprehensive option.
See page 141 for the full set of indicators.
137