06_SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION_INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
    
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT
This Sustainability Report has been submitted to assurance by an external independent audit firm, Deloitte & Touche S.p.A. The scope, methodology, 
limitations and conclusions of the assurance engagement are provided in the following Independent Auditor’s Report.
INTESTAZIONE
INTESTAZIONE
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
ON THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 
To the Governance and Sustainability Committee of
Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V.
We have carried out a limited assurance engagement on the Sustainability Report of Fiat Chrysler 
Automobiles (hereinafter “FCA” or the “Group”) as of December 31, 2018.
Sustainability organization’s responsibility on the preparation of the Sustainability Report
Group Sustainability organization is responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report in  
accordance with “Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards” established in 2016 by GRI 
– Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI Standards”), as stated in the paragraphs “About this Report” and 
“Definitions, Methodology and Scope” of the Sustainability Report. The Sustainability organization is  
supported by several entities within the organization including the Sustainability Disclosure Committee - 
that reviews and approves the Sustainability Report disclosure -, the Group Executive Council and the Board 
Governance and Sustainability Committee that is also responsible for, among other things, assisting and  
advising the Board of Directors with monitoring and evaluating reports on the Group’s sustainable 
development policies and practices, management standards, strategy, performance and governance  
globally, and reviewing, assessing and making recommendations as to strategic guidelines for sustainability 
related issues, and reviewing main results reported in the annual Sustainability Report. The Group 
Sustainability organization also supports the definition of FCA’s objectives regarding sustainability  
performance and reporting of the achieved results, the identification of the stakeholders and the significant 
aspects to report.
Auditors’ independence and quality control 
We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for  
Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is  
founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, 
confidentiality and professional behavior.
Our auditing firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 (ISQC Italia 1) and, accordingly, 
maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures 
regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements.
Auditors’ responsibility
Our responsibility is to issue this report based on the procedures performed. We conducted our work in 
accordance with the criteria established in the “International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 
3000 (Revised) – Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” 
(hereinafter “ISAE 3000 Revised”), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board 
(IAASB) for limited assurance engagements. The standard requires that we plan and perform the  
engagement to obtain limited assurance whether the Sustainability Report is free from material  
misstatement.
The procedures performed on the Sustainability Report included inquiries, primarily with company personnel 
responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, analysis of documents, recalculations and other 
evidence gathering procedures as appropriate. 
PIE' DI PAGINA
PIE' DI PAGINA
139