02_BUSINESS MODEL AND GOVERNANCE_MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
    
Engaging Youth The  second  workshop  consisted  of  interns  working  in  our 
Purchasing and Supply Chain Management organizations, whose 
Many of FCA’s sustainability events are designed to engage youth,  challenge was the topic of responsible sourcing, specifically related 
particularly millennials, in dialogue about the future of mobility. These  to the safety and integrity of the global supply chain with respect to 
activities range from classroom working groups and presentations in  potential human rights issues. Our interns learned that FCA believes 
high schools and universities, to role-playing exercises. In addition,  the responsible procurement of raw materials for our vehicles 
several departments at FCA regularly reach out to students to  is essential, even if the source of the raw material is several tiers 
engage them in design or science, technology, engineering and  removed in our supply chain. By taking on the roles of automaker, 
math (STEM)-related initiatives. Tier 1 supplier, sub-Tier supplier, nonprofit organization, and worker, 
the students examined a multi-stakeholder approach to this issue 
Summer Intern Event
that involves a collaborative effort among the various industries, 
During 2018, we turned to our student interns for a fresh look on two  regulatory agencies, non-governmental organizations, customers, 
important topics: the future of mobility and human rights in the supply  and suppliers.
chain. Student interns represent a rich cross-section of constituents. 
They are members of our workforce during their internship; they are 
Engaging the Supply Chain
consumers; they are part of the academic community; and they are 
future leaders in the public and/or private sectors.
Because suppliers represent such an essential element in FCA’s 
Workshops held in our U.S. technology center served a two-fold  value chain, we engage extensively with them on sustainability 
purpose: our interns learned about sustainability at FCA, and we, in  topics. This engagement includes, among other activities, a 
turn, furthered our understanding of the economic, environmental  dedicated sustainability class as a component of Supplier Training 
and social impacts that the Company and our stakeholders are  Week; one-on-one benchmarking and mentoring; and coordinating 
facing. To make things more interesting for all involved, the two  peer-to-peer coaching activities. Topics include aspects of FCA’s 
events were structured around role-playing. expectations for suppliers, including responsible working conditions, 
environmental impact, ethics, and tools for reporting to FCA.
At the first event, the students broke into teams, with each 
assuming the identity of a major player in the automotive eco- In Brazil, FCA conducted training with leading suppliers on climate 
system: manufacturer, technology or mobility service provider, utility  change and greenhouse gas inventory. We also participated in an 
company, community leader and consumer. The challenge was to  initiative promoted by the industry association FIEMG in partnership 
identify what the business of moving people and goods will look like  with FCA in the State of Minas Gerais, aimed at strengthening the 
in 2025 from a variety of perspectives, and evaluate how mobility  automotive industry. This project focused on helping to increase 
can more explicitly benefit society. The teams presented a diverse  productivity and competitiveness among micro- and small-sized 
set of ideas focused on bringing affordable, accessible, efficient,  companies within the automotive supply chain.
safe and enjoyable mobility to a broader consumer base, while 
easing urban congestion. Among the concepts that were explored 
were autonomous and connected vehicles, shared rides, partial 
ownership, electrification and the subscription model.
“
We turned to our student interns  
for a fresh look on two important topics: 
the future of mobility and human rights  
in the supply chain.”
15