02_BUSINESS MODEL AND GOVERNANCE_MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
    
Engaging Investors Engaging Associations  
and Institutions
Capital Markets Day
FCA’s  approach  to  engaging  public  institutions,  industry 
In June 2018, FCA’s leadership presented our 2018-2022 business 
associations, and other organizations aims to make a positive 
plan to the financial community in Balocco (Italy). This day-long event, 
contribution to business conditions that are competitive, as well as 
called Capital Markets Day, represented a key milestone for FCA 
sustainable over the long term.
as we communicated our expectations regarding financial targets 
In Europe, the Group belongs to trade associations such as 
and the solutions that will help us reach these targets, including 
the European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association (ACEA) 
electrification, vehicle connectivity and autonomous technology.
for passenger cars and commercial vehicles. ACEA represents 
FCA’s commitment to sustainability was integrated into the themes 
manufacturers with production sites in the European Union (EU). 
and activities for the day:
The Association’s mission is to define common interests, policies 
• 500 trees planted on-site to mark the occasion and positions in the framework of a dialogue with European 
• brochure distributed to communicate our achievements and  institutions and other stakeholders. In addition, ACEA is engaged 
commitments in communication activities about the role and importance of the 
• display area dedicated to sustainability, including low-emission  automotive sector for the entire EU economy, and undertakes a 
vehicles and technology. strategic reflection on global sustainable mobility challenges. FCA is a 
founding member of the Association and contributes both financially 
through a membership fee and operationally through our experts’ 
participation in working groups and task forces related to these 
“
priority areas: connected and automated driving; competitiveness, 
Capital Markets Day
market and economy; environment and sustainability; international 
represented a key  trade; research and innovation; safety; and transport policy.
milestone for FCA.” The Auto Alliance is a U.S.-based trade association representing 12 
automakers. The group’s mission is to promote policies that support 
automakers in building cars and light trucks that are safe, reliable, 
energy efficient, clean and smart. The organization provides a unified 
voice on behalf of FCA US and the U.S. auto industry on regulatory 
and legislative matters at the federal and state levels.
In Brazil, the Group has long been an active member of the 
Associação Nacional dos Fabricantes de Veículos Automotores 
(ANFAVEA). This nationwide association unites the country’s 
automakers with the purpose of addressing industry and market 
issues affecting the automotive sector as well as coordinating and 
protecting the collective interests of the association’s members.
FCA is also a member of the China Association of Automobile 
Manufacturers (CAAM). CAAM is a leading group aimed at facilitating 
the communication between the Chinese government and the 
automotive industry. This group promotes the development of the 
automotive industry in China, leveraging its main functions such as 
policy research, information service, international communication 
and exhibition service.
16