01_MESSAGE TO STAKEHOLDERS_MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND THE CEO
    
MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND THE CEO
We want to thank everyone in the FCA organization for their  Keeping in mind where we came from and the journey that has 
professional and personal contributions, during what was an  brought us thus far, we will carry this organization forward with a 
extraordinary year. very clear vision of what it takes to achieve our ambitions.
Thanks to them, we finished 2018 in the strongest financial position  We firmly believe that we have the depth and breadth of talent and skills 
since FCA was created. We achieved record results and a number of  we need to shape the future of this organization exactly as we envision 
significant milestones, which have paved the way for our next phase  it: a company with a global horizon and unlimited possibilities, working 
of growth and profits. to become one of the most profitable automakers in the world.
The year was also marked by a sudden and unexpected change  This vision draws its strength from the collective spirit of our people 
in leadership following the untimely passing of Sergio Marchionne. - united by the same strong commitment to the values that drive 
our business and our lives: integrity and discipline, openness to 
That was a tough moment for all of us, including on a personal level, 
feedback and constructive debate, and full acceptance that we are 
but our organization was well prepared to manage this unexpected 
each accountable.
transition because, from the very beginning, Sergio had the humility 
and wisdom to see that the ultimate fulfillment of his role as a leader  In 2018, we reached a net cash position for the very first time. 
was to teach those around him also to be leaders. Industrial free cash flows more than doubled to €4.3 billion(1), leading 
to a net industrial cash position of €1.9 billion(1) at year-end.
Notwithstanding the difficult circumstances, we were able to move 
rapidly, ensuring stability in leadership and steadiness of vision. On that basis, the Board of Directors is recommending, for the 
first time in nearly ten years, to reward our shareholders with the 
reinstatement of ordinary dividends.
(1) Including Magneti Marelli, which is classified as a discontinued operation for the year ended December 31, 2018.
3