01_MESSAGE TO STAKEHOLDERS_MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND THE CEO
    
The agreement to sell Magneti Marelli, a transaction which is expected  On the product side, we increased our offering with several key 
to close in the second quarter of 2019, will create one of the world’s  vehicle launches.
leading independent automotive component suppliers, recognizing 
Jeep launched: the all-new Grand Commander in China, a premium 
the full strategic value of our components business. Not only will 
seven-passenger SUV exclusive to the Chinese market; the all-new 
it provide a secure and exciting future for Magneti Marelli and its 
Wrangler in Europe and Japan; the new Cherokee in Europe, China 
employees but it will also allow us to further strengthen our balance 
and Japan; the new Renegade in LATAM. The all-new Gladiator, the 
sheet and reward our shareholders with an extraordinary dividend.
most capable mid-size pickup truck, made its worldwide debut at 
Our consistently strong performance has resulted in ratings  the Los Angeles Auto Show.
upgrades from each of the three major credit rating agencies.
Alfa Romeo revealed the new Stelvio and Giulia Quadrifoglio 
Adjusted EBIT for the year came in at a record €7.3 billion(1). Nürburgring limited editions, with 108 models of each produced to 
commemorate the 108th anniversary of the brand.
Adjusted net profit climbed 34 percent to a record level of €5.0 billion(1) 
and net profit was up 3 percent to €3.6 billion(1). At the New York International Auto Show, Maserati debuted the 
Levante Trofeo V8 which will be sold in markets around the world.
Worldwide combined shipments totaled 4.8 million units and net 
revenues were up 4 percent to €115.4 billion(1). Ram launched the all-new 1500, which has already won two of the 
most prestigious awards in North America: 2018 North American 
Looking at our mass-market operations by region, NAFTA posted a 
Truck of the Year (NACTOY) and Motor Trend Truck of the Year.
strong performance, attaining a record high in Adjusted EBIT, up 19 
percent at €6.2 billion, with a margin of 8.6 percent. In the United  And we began 2019 with the reveal of the all-new Ram Heavy Duty 
States, we reported the highest retail sales in 17 years, with both  at the North American International Auto Show in Detroit.
Jeep and Ram brands hitting new records. We also completed 
As part of our commitment to stay at the forefront of the rapid 
the most complex and intensive phase of the realignment of our 
technological changes that are transforming our industry, we are 
manufacturing footprint in the Region, in response to a continued 
pursuing a multi-partner strategy for the development of advanced 
shift in demand towards trucks and SUVs.
driver assistance and autonomous driving technologies, working 
LATAM posted robust growth with Adjusted EBIT more than doubling  with companies who are leaders in their respective sectors.
from the previous year to €359 million and margin increasing by 250 
With  Waymo,  Google’s  self-driving  car  project,  we  further 
basis points to 4.4 percent. In Brazil, we finished the year in a leading 
strengthened our partnership in 2018, announcing an agreement to 
position in three of the most important segments - pickups, light 
deliver up to an additional 62,000 Chrysler Pacifica Hybrid minivans 
commercial vehicles and SUVs - while in Argentina we improved our 
to support the launch of the first autonomous-car taxi service. We 
market share despite the severe economic crisis in the second half 
also dedicated a new facility at our Chelsea Proving Grounds in the 
of the year.
United States for further development and testing of autonomous 
Results in APAC were disappointing, Adjusted EBIT showed a loss  vehicles and advanced safety technologies.
of €296 million, impacted by trade and regulatory challenges due to 
In addition, we are partnering with BMW for Level 3 autonomy and 
market weakness and increased competition and reflecting lower 
APTIV for advanced driver assistance retail solutions, as these 
shipments from our Chinese joint venture.
initiatives provide the opportunity to fully leverage the capabilities of 
In EMEA, performance was adversely affected by several factors,  each partner.
including the transition to new emissions regulations. Lower volumes 
We believe that choosing the right technology at the right moment 
and pricing actions in response to this transition, as well as higher 
is key to our ability to lead the way in the future of transportation, 
advertising costs to support the growth of Jeep brand, led to a 
especially now as emerging technologies are revolutionizing the 
decrease in Adjusted EBIT to €406 million. Net revenues came in at 
concept of personal mobility.
€22.8 billion, in line with prior year.
We are ready to tailor both the technologies and the platforms not 
There was also a positive contribution from Maserati, although the 
only to meet but also to shape that new vision.
results were below the 2017 level, primarily due to market challenges 
in China, as well as inventory management actions and lower 
volumes in North America and Europe.
(1) Including Magneti Marelli, which is classified as a discontinued operation for the year ended December 31, 2018.
4