02_BUSINESS MODEL AND GOVERNANCE_CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
    
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FCA’s governance supports how we do business  The Board of Directors adopted a diversity policy for the Board of 
on a daily basis, enabling us to lead the way to  Directors (the Diversity Policy), as the Company believes that diversity 
sustainable growth and to create value while  in the composition of the Board of Directors in terms of age, gender, 
expertise, work background and nationality is an important means 
respecting the legitimate interests of stakeholders. 
of promoting debate, balanced decision-making and independent 
The main elements of FCA’s governance structure are described  actions of the Board of Directors.
below, while full disclosure on this aspect is available in the Annual 
The Company considers each of these diversity aspects key 
Report.
drivers to support the above-mentioned goals and to achieve 
The Board of Directors – composed of 12 Directors, including both  sufficient diversity of views and the expertise needed for a 
executive and non-executive – is responsible for the management  proper understanding of current affairs and longer-term risks and 
and strategic direction of the Group. The designation of Directors as  opportunities related to the Company’s business. The Board of 
either executive or non-executive is determined by shareholders at  Directors and its Governance and Sustainability Committee consider 
the time of election. such factors when evaluating nominees for election to the Board of 
Directors and during the annual performance assessment process.
The Board of Directors as a whole is composed of two executive 
Directors (i.e., the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer), having  The composition of the FCA Board of Directors reflects international 
responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Company,  standards:
and 10 non-executive Directors, who do not have such day-to-
• there are 12 Directors, ensuring the effective functioning of the 
day responsibility within the Company or the Group. The general 
Board and its Committees 
authority to represent the Company shall be vested in the Board of 
• the Board is composed of three women and nine men
Directors and the Chief Executive Officer.
• Board member average age is 59
It is the responsibility of the non-executive Directors to supervise  • a skill matrix of the Board members is provided on the corporate 
the policies carried out by the executive Directors and the general  website.
affairs of the Company and its affiliated enterprise, including the 
During 2018, there were nine meetings of the Board of Directors. 
implementation of the strategy of the Company regarding long-
The average attendance at those meetings was approximately 95%.
term value creation. With a view to maintaining supervision on the 
Company, the non-executive Directors regularly discuss FCA’s 
long-term business plans, the implementation of such plans and 
BOARD COMMITTEES
the risks associated with such plans with the executive Directors. 
We have determined that eight of our 12 Board members qualify as 
independent for purposes of New York Stock Exchange rules and  The Board of Directors is supported by three Committees:
the Dutch Corporate Governance Code.
• Governance and Sustainability Committee
• Audit Committee
• Compensation Committee.
The Governance and Sustainability Committee is responsible for, 
among other things, assisting and advising the Board of Directors 
with: (i) the identification of the criteria, professional and personal 
qualifications for candidates to serve as Directors; (ii) periodic 
assessment of the size and composition of the Board of Directors; 
(iii) periodic assessment (annually) of the performance of individual 
Directors and reporting on this to the Board of Directors; (iv) 
proposals for appointment of executive and non-executive Directors; 
(v) supervision of the selection criteria and appointment procedure 
for senior management; (vi) monitoring and evaluating reports 
on the Group’s sustainable development policies and practices, 
management standards, strategy, performance and governance 
globally; and (vii) reviewing, assessing and making recommendations 
as to strategic guidelines for sustainability-related issues, and 
reviewing the annual Sustainability Report.
32