02_BUSINESS MODEL AND GOVERNANCE_CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
    
The Governance and Sustainability Committee is elected by the  Discussions between stakeholders and the Board Committee 
Board of Directors and is comprised of at least three Directors. More  regarding sustainability issues are carried out by the Sustainability 
than half of the members shall be independent and at most one of  Team as part of its assignment to maintain an interchange with 
the members may be an executive Director. internal and external stakeholders. Reports on these dialogues 
are then included in the annual disclosure and conveyed to the 
During 2018, the Governance and Sustainability Committee met 
Governance and Sustainability Committee.
once with 100% attendance of its members at that meeting. The 
Committee reviewed the Board’s and Committee’s assessments, 
the  sustainability  achievements  and  objectives  and  the 
CODE OF CONDUCT
recommendations for Directors’ election.
The Code of Conduct is a pillar of the integrity system which regulates 
SUSTAINABILITY MODEL the decision-making processes and operating approach of the Group 
and our employees in the interests of stakeholders. The Code of 
Conduct amplifies aspects of conduct related to the economic, 
FCA’s sustainability model incorporates the need to implement robust 
social and environmental dimensions, underscoring the importance 
processes as well as strengthen cultural buy-in to simultaneously 
of dialogue with stakeholders.
achieve our economic and social responsibility objectives.
FCA endorses the United Nations (UN) Declaration of Human 
The Group has established processes to align our long-term business 
Rights, the International Labour Organization (ILO) Conventions 
strategy with the needs of internal and external stakeholders, to 
and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development 
assess our ability to meet these targets, and to identify opportunities 
(OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Companies. The FCA Code of 
for improvement. The commitment to sustainability arises from a 
Conduct is intended to be consistent with such guidelines and aims 
corporate culture that includes integrity, respect for others and a 
to ensure that all members of the Company’s workforce act with 
commitment to community service.
the highest level of integrity, comply with applicable laws, and build 
In order to implement meaningful sustainability practices and optimize  a better future for our Company and the communities in which we 
the management of sustainability aspects within the Company, FCA  do business.
involves every area, every function and every employee, from the top 
The FCA integrity system is comprised of these primary elements:
of the management chain to workers in plants and offices around the 
world. The Group also actively promotes environmental and social  • Principles that capture the Company commitment to important 
responsibility among our many suppliers. values in business and personal conduct
• Practices that are the basic rules that must guide our daily behaviors 
Several entities within the Group, primarily those referred to below, 
required to achieve our overarching Principles. The Practices 
help direct a disciplined approach to sustainability management. 
supplement the Principles with useful detail
The Board’s Governance and Sustainability Committee evaluates  • Procedures that further articulate the Company’s specific 
proposals related to strategic sustainability initiatives, advises the full  operational approach to achieving compliance and that may have 
Board as necessary, and reviews the annual Sustainability Report. specific application limited to certain geographical regions and/or 
businesses as appropriate
The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is supported by the Group 
• Statements, including Guidelines, that cover specific issues to 
Executive Council (GEC), a group led by the CEO and composed 
emphasize the Company’s accountability and commitment to a 
of senior leadership from regional operations, brands, industrial 
culture of responsibility and integrity. These cover, among others, 
processes, and support/corporate functions. The GEC approves 
matters related to human rights, competition, sustainability for 
operating guidelines and plays a vital role in ensuring that 
suppliers,  environmental  management,  responsible  taxation, 
sustainability efforts are aligned with economic and business 
advertising and marketing communication, and Conflict Minerals. 
objectives.
The FCA Guidelines were updated and posted to the Company 
The Chief Audit, Sustainability and Compliance Officer is also a  website in 2018.
member of the GEC and coordinates the activities of the Sustainability 
The Code applies to all Board members and officers of Fiat Chrysler 
Team. The Sustainability Team, with members located in Italy, 
Automobiles N.V. and its subsidiaries, as well as full-time and part-
Brazil, China and the U.S., facilitates the process of continuous 
time employees of FCA and any of our subsidiaries. The Code 
improvement, contributing indirectly to risk management, cost 
also applies to all temporary, contract and all other individuals and 
optimization, stakeholder engagement and effective communication 
companies that act on behalf of FCA, wherever they are located in 
to stakeholders of our commitments and results.
the world.
33