02_BUSINESS MODEL AND GOVERNANCE_CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
    
FCA uses our best efforts to ensure that the Code is regarded as  Acting with Integrity
a best practice of business conduct and observed by those third 
parties with whom we maintain business relationships of a lasting  The FCA Code of Conduct clearly and affirmatively requires 
nature such as suppliers, dealers, advisors and agents. Group  employees to report issues of non-compliance. Unless local law 
contracts worldwide include specific clauses relating to recognition  provides otherwise, employees must report violations of law, 
and adherence to the principles underlying the Code of Conduct, as  regulation or Company policy of which they become aware, including 
well as compliance with local regulations, particularly those related to  but not limited to, issues involving vehicle safety, vehicle emissions, 
corruption, money-laundering, terrorism and other crimes constituting  financial reporting, or reports to governmental authorities. Any failure 
liability for legal persons. in reporting such violations could place the Company at risk, and may 
be the subject of disciplinary action.
The Code may be consulted and downloaded from FCA’s website, 
the employee portal and other employee communication channels  FCA’s workforce and business partners can always effectively, and in 
aimed at reaching the entire workforce. Copies can also be obtained  most countries anonymously if desired, communicate any concern, 
from Human Resources, the Legal Department or Internal Audit and  including any vehicle safety, emissions or regulatory concern, or any 
Compliance. conflict of interest, through the Ethics Helpline.
FCA disseminates the Code of Conduct and the values of good  The Ethics Helpline offers a worldwide, common and independent 
governance to employees. The level of knowledge of the Code  intake channel via telephone (38 dedicated numbers in 22 languages) 
of Conduct is measured via training with modules that test  and web to report any concerns of alleged situations, events, or actions 
comprehension. Completion rates are closely monitored. that may be inconsistent with the FCA Code of Conduct. It is managed 
by an independent provider, available 24 hours a day, seven days a 
During 2018, FCA offered training on conflict of interest, export 
week. FCA has chosen this reporting channel to meet compliance 
controls, anti-corruption, anti-trust, compliance with the Italian 
needs and maintain a consistent reporting environment.
legislative  decree  n°  231/2001  (where  applicable),  corporate 
governance and human rights, totaling roughly 138,000 individual  In addition, the FCA Ethics Helpline also allows employees, 
training sessions for FCA employees. suppliers, dealers, consumers and other stakeholders to request 
advice about the application of the Code of Conduct (for example, 
to verify definitions of terms or restrictions under the Code).
FCA employees may also seek advice concerning the application 
and interpretation of the FCA Code of Conduct by contacting their 
immediate supervisor, Human Resources representatives, or the 
“
FCA disseminates the  Legal Department.
Code of Conduct and the   Violations of the Code of Conduct are identified through:
• reports received through the Ethics Helpline
values of good governance  
• reports made to management or Human Resources
to employees.” • periodic activities carried out by Internal Audit and Compliance
• checks forming part of the standard operating procedures.
FCA analyzes and investigates the allegations received through the 
Ethics Helpline; the results and any potential actions are assessed 
by the Ethics and Compliance Committee at the regional level and, 
where deemed necessary, escalated to the global FCA Ethics and 
Compliance Committee. The relevant internal functions are notified 
of the violations. The FCA Audit Committee is periodically updated 
on the status of the allegations with a specific focus on significant 
cases.
34