02_BUSINESS MODEL AND GOVERNANCE_CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
    
VIOLATIONS OF THE CODE OF CONDUCT  Human Rights
by category
Total closed Total confirmed  The Group is committed to the prevention of adverse human rights 
cases cases
conditions. FCA requires adherence to internationally recognized 
Managing Our Assets and Information 401 265
principles for the respect and support of fundamental human rights 
Interacting with External Parties 93 34
in all geographic areas where the Group operates.
Conducting Business 45 20
Protecting Our Workforce 268 68 FCA  promotes  these  principles  and  expects  our  suppliers, 
Total 807 387 contractors and other business partners, with whom we do 
business, to adhere to these standards.
The violations of the Code of Conduct have been grouped according  The FCA Human Rights Guidelines, which are publicly available, are 
to the four categories that organize the Principles of the Code.  consistent with the spirit and intent of the United Nations Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations Guiding Principles 
Accordingly, Managing Our Assets and Information includes 
on Business and Human Rights (Ruggie Framework), the United 
Communicating Effectively, Protecting FCA Assets and Maintaining 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals, the OECD Guidelines for 
Appropriate Records. The category Interacting with External Parties 
Multinational Companies, the Declaration on Fundamental Principles 
comprises Avoiding Conflicts of Interest and Supporting Our 
and Rights at Work of the International Labour Organization, and the 
Communities. Conducting Business covers Sustainably Purchasing 
U.K. Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Goods or Services, Transacting Business Legally and Engaging in 
Sustainable Practices. Finally, Protecting Our Workforce includes  The Human Rights Guidelines cover the rights we seek to ensure for, 
behaviors related to Maintaining a Fair and Secure Workplace and  and with, our major stakeholders:
Ensuring Health and Safety. See the complete Code of Conduct 
Employees: FCA prohibits the use of child and forced labor. We seek 
for further details about each category. For all Code violations, the 
to provide a diverse and inclusive workplace, free from discrimination 
disciplinary measures taken are commensurate with the seriousness 
and harassment. We recognize and respect workforce members’ 
of the case and comply with local legislation.
freedom of association and are committed to providing employment 
The auditable universe of FCA companies is assessed annually  conditions that are competitive and compliant with all applicable 
for significant risks, including those related to corruption on the  employment, wage and working hour laws. FCA conducts all of 
basis of quantitative criteria: location, activity, and sector, as well  our worldwide operations with the highest regard for the health and 
as qualitative criteria such as interviews with senior management  safety of our workforce in accordance with applicable laws and is 
and professional opinions. The most relevant risks arising from  dedicated to consistently improving health and safety measures to 
the assessment are audited to ensure 100% coverage every three  help ensure that the potential for injury in the workplace is minimized.
years of all commercial companies, and every five years for all other 
Customers: FCA is committed to offering safe, reliable, high-quality 
companies.
vehicles to our customers.
Communities: FCA is committed to socially responsible engagement 
with the communities where we have operations.
Business partners and suppliers: FCA expects our suppliers, 
contractors and other business partners with whom we do business, 
to adhere to our human rights standards. They are also required 
to comply with all occupational health and safety related rules and 
regulations, and to adopt measures and standards that contribute 
to an overall improvement in occupational health and safety 
performance throughout the value chain.
Our due diligence processes include actions to safeguard against 
human rights abuses in our business and in our supply chain.
35