02_BUSINESS MODEL AND GOVERNANCE_CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
    
As part of our initiative to internally identify and mitigate any related  Environmental Protection
risks, the following tools have been developed:
FCA is conscious of the effect that our activities and products have on 
1. an annual survey aimed at detecting any case of child and forced 
society and the environment, and of our role in developing solutions 
labor at worldwide FCA companies, including those located in 
to reduce our environmental footprint. We foster environmental 
countries that have not ratified ILO Conventions on these issues. 
protection in our overall approach to business and have established 
In 2018, no incidents of child labor or forced and compulsory 
Environmental Guidelines, publicly available on our website, to 
labor were reported in any of the companies mapped.
promote and instill these efforts as applied to our products and our 
2. a Human Rights self-assessment performed by the Internal Audit  operations.
department as part of the standard internal audit process, in order 
We evaluate the impact of our vehicles on the environment throughout 
to cover due diligence requirements of the UN Ruggie Framework 
their entire life cycle. Our approach to responsible vehicle development 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Checks are also 
includes dedication to efficient powertrains, improved aerodynamics, 
performed in those countries with a high risk based on the yearly 
weight reduction, safety, quality, increased use of renewable materials, 
Audit Plan. 
and alternative mobility solutions. We believe that immediate and 
Areas covered by the self-assessment include: tangible results can best be achieved by combining conventional and 
alternative technologies, while recognizing and accommodating the 
• Child labor and young workers
different economic, geographic and fuel requirements of each market.
• Forced labor
• Freedom from discrimination In  our  industrial  operations,  FCA  has  adopted  World  Class 
• Conditions of employment Manufacturing (WCM), a structured production system that promotes 
• Security sustainable, systematic improvements aimed to evaluate and address 
• Supply Chain Management all types of wastes and losses (including injuries) at our manufacturing 
operations by applying methods and standards with rigor, and with 
In 2018, the human rights self-assessment compliance checklist 
the involvement of the entire manufacturing workforce.
was performed by individual legal entities and reviewed by Internal 
Audit and Compliance, with a coverage of 74% of the FCA workforce  Responsibility for protecting the environment rests with everyone at 
worldwide, involving the following countries: Argentina, Brazil,  FCA, as well as with our business partners and the customers who 
Canada, China, Italy, India, Mexico and the U.S. drive our vehicles. We encourage the safe and eco-friendly use of our 
products, providing customers and dealers with information regarding 
Alleged human rights violations are reported through the same 
the use, maintenance and dismantling of vehicles and other products. 
channels as other types of potential violations, including the FCA 
We expect our non-managed operations such as suppliers, dealers, 
Ethics Helpline and the telephone contact list available on our 
contractors, business partners, licensees, and joint venture partners 
corporate website.
to comply with all environmental-related regulations and to contribute 
to an overall improvement in environmental impact throughout the 
Data Privacy Rights
value chain. We encourage our employees to take an active part in 
In the conduct of our business operations, FCA collects a significant  our efforts to protect the environment, and provide a wide range of 
amount of personally identifiable information related to employees,  engagement opportunities, communications and training activities to 
contractors, suppliers, customers and any other persons with  support this objective.
whom we have a relationship. FCA considers the personal rights 
FCA acknowledges the challenges posed by climate change and as 
and privacy of each and every individual to be fundamental in 
a result, has set targets that contribute to the goal of transitioning to 
our business relationships and intends to protect values such as 
a low-carbon future.
confidentiality and personal data protection rights.
To reduce the impact of our vehicles, we strive to reduce CO 
FCA aims to operate in accordance with the laws and regulations  2
emissions and improve fuel economy in response to the unique 
around the world that govern the collection and processing of 
regulatory requirements of FCA’s major markets.
personal data. Our Code of Conduct and Data Privacy Guidelines, 
available on our Company website, provide guidance on the  In the European Union (EU), FCA has set a target to achieve a 40% 
management of personal and sensitive data, and the prevention of  reduction in CO emissions by 2020 compared with the baseline of 
2
potential privacy and security risks and incidents. 2006 for mass-market cars sold in Europe.
36