02_BUSINESS MODEL AND GOVERNANCE_CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
    
In the U.S., we have targeted actions in support of the U.S. EPA/ FCA’s record keeping and internal accounting and control Practices 
NHTSA’s goal of increasing industry year-over-year average fleet  and Procedures are designed to ensure integrity and accuracy in the 
wide fuel economy performance. We have set year-over-year fuel  recording and reporting of all business transactions.
economy reduction targets, including the achievement of at least a 
Alleged violations are reported through the FCA Ethics Helpline, 
five to 15% improvement in fuel economy for major renewals of FCA 
as well as through the same channels as other types of potential 
US vehicles compared with replaced vehicles/models. This target 
violations.
has been achieved, and in some cases surpassed, in the years since 
it was established. Compliance with competition laws is also crucial to the Group’s 
reputation. To fulfill FCA’s commitment to compliance in this 
Global goals for our manufacturing plants include:
area in all countries where we do business, FCA has adopted a 
• reducing energy consumed per vehicle produced by 30% from  comprehensive compliance program, which includes Competition 
2010 to 2020 Guidelines, periodic training, awareness and counseling.
• reducing CO emissions per vehicle produced by 32% from 2010 
2 When dealing with our business partners, our workforce is expected 
to 2020
to always maintain the highest degree of integrity and to act solely in 
• reducing water consumption per vehicle produced by 40% from 
the best interests of the Company.
2010 to 2020.
Conflicts of interest may arise when members of FCA’s workforce 
FCA is also helping mobilize suppliers to become actively involved in 
engage in activities or have interests that compromise the interests of 
cutting greenhouse gas emissions: we have set a target to monitor 
our Company, because these activities or interests may compromise 
CO emissions of at least 90% of top suppliers (accounting for about 
2 objective business decision making or otherwise interfere with the 
57% of purchases by value) by 2020.
performance of work-related duties.
Thus, in order to assist the workforce in the management of conflicts 
Transacting Business Legally of interest or any potential conflicts, in 2018 the Group implemented 
a new module to submit a disclosure through the FCA Ethics 
Included in the FCA Code of Conduct’s Principle “Transacting  Helpline.
Business Legally” are, among others, rules related to anti-bribery, 
As reported in the FCA Code of Conduct, the Group is committed to 
anti-corruption, competition law and government and public 
conducting our government and public institution relations, including 
institution relations.
lobbying, in accordance with applicable laws and ethics rules as well as 
FCA is committed to compliance with all applicable anti-corruption  in full compliance with the Code and any applicable local procedures.
laws that govern our operations. No FCA director, officer, employee, 
Political contributions by the Group are only allowed where permitted 
agent, or business partner may directly or indirectly, give, offer, 
by law and must be authorized at the appropriate level within each 
promise, or authorize bribes, kickbacks, payoffs, or other improper 
Group company. In 2018, no contributions were made by FCA to 
payments or transfers of anything of value to any government official 
political parties.
with the intention to influence such official in the performance of his or 
her official functions and thereby secure a business advantage. FCA 
also prohibits facilitating payments or “grease payments” as well as 
Legal Proceedings
commercial bribery, i.e., transactions not involving government officials.
These principles apply to third parties that act on FCA’s behalf.  Various legal proceedings, claims and governmental investigations 
Each FCA company that engages third parties to act on its behalf  are pending against the Group on a wide range of topics. The Group 
must ensure that such representatives sign written agreements that  monitors the status of pending legal procedures and consults with 
contain clauses that require their compliance with anti-corruption  experts on a regular basis.
laws, and that the representatives are subject to the Company’s 
During 2018, the Group has not received an individual final judgment, or 
applicable due diligence procedures, if any.
group of related final judgments, relating to a breach of i) environmental 
FCA also conducts appropriate due diligence investigations prior  legislation, ii) rights of local communities, iii) privacy, iv) product liability, 
to any merger and acquisition transaction, and ensures that the  v) corruption, vi) unfair competition, intellectual property and antitrust, 
final agreements in any such transactions include appropriate   vii) contractual liability, viii) product and service information and labeling, 
anti-corruption representations, warranties and related clauses. ix) litigation with suppliers or x) human rights that would be considered 
material to the Group’s operations.
37