02_BUSINESS MODEL AND GOVERNANCE_RISK MANAGEMENT
    
RISK MANAGEMENT
The management and mitigation of risks to our  ENTERPRISE  
business encompass a broad array of possibilities, 
RISK MANAGEMENT
including socio-economic uncertainty; regulatory 
initiatives; competitive actions; industrial accidents; 
FCA’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) model defines a risk as 
natural disasters; risks posed by climate change; 
any event that could impact the Company’s ability to achieve its 
liability claims and lawsuits; portfolio management 
objectives.
and investor decisions; employee health, safety, 
Our approach to managing those risks is based on the framework 
and retention issues; and similar exposures within 
established by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the 
the FCA supply chain.
Treadway Commission (COSO) and was adapted to the unique 
Whether considering local, regional or global risks, their impact  needs of the Group. Adhering to the core elements of business 
can range from minor to significant. They are often tangible –  planning, execution, monitoring and adapting allows us to manage 
usually quantified in financial terms – or more qualitative, such as  by making informed, risk-based decisions. By incorporating best 
reputational risk among consumers, business partners or investors.  practices identified during evaluations of other industrial groups, we 
After first identifying the risks, we take preemptive steps to reduce  can better respond to new requirements or to significant emerging 
the likelihood of occurrence, develop plans for responding to events  issues such as climate change, macroeconomic developments, or 
should they occur, and where possible and economically feasible,  joint ventures. More than 50 risk drivers have been identified, which 
secure insurance to cover potential losses. are further broken down into approximately 100 potential events.
The three primary elements of the globally-integrated FCA  The analysis of potential risks is:
approach are:
• dynamic:  due  to  periodic  evaluation  of  the  main  risks  with 
• the  Enterprise  Risk  Management  process,  which  increases  follow-up and monitoring of mitigating actions identified and/or 
visibility to key risks that could hinder FCA’s ability to achieve our  implemented
strategic goals. All regions collaborate to identify and prioritize  • predictive: through prospective risk assessment
risks based on impact and vulnerability, determine the acceptable  • cross-functional: through risk assessment with direct involvement 
risk tolerance, and monitor mitigation actions and risk metrics for  of business areas. 
key global risks throughout the year.
We appoint ERM coordinators for each operating segment of the 
• the Business Continuity Management process, which establishes 
Group. They coordinate and conduct cross-functional meetings with 
and validates a structured approach to restoring normal business 
the heads of key operating segments. These meetings provide the 
operations after major disruptions - typically those events that 
forum to facilitate discussion, identify and evaluate potential risks, 
impair production across multiple days and/or manufacturing plants
and formulate risk mitigation plans.
• the Loss Prevention process, which identifies conditions that 
could result in property and business interruption losses; assigns  An enterprise risk assessment is performed annually, based on a 
probability  and  estimates  the  impact;  implements  optimized  bottom-up approach beginning with the functional areas, and 
prevention, protection, and risk transfer countermeasures; and  concludes with the review by the regional Risk Management 
monitors the process for effectiveness. These activities are not  Committee. Regional/company Chief Executive Officers and/or 
only focused on the more common fire and natural hazard risks,  Chief Operating Officers of these operating segments review and 
but have been extended to several other pure risks through the  approve their respective risk assessments and submit these results 
development of innovative risk engineering solutions. to the central ERM team. The central team consolidates results 
into a Group report for review and validation with the Global Risk 
The risk management process used by FCA is a factor in our 
Management Committee and Group Executive Council. As part of 
sustainable development and provides a competitive advantage in a 
the consolidation, significant global focus risks are identified and risk 
fast-changing and challenging global business environment.
dashboards are created to monitor major risk indicators as well as 
current and go-forward mitigation efforts. Once validated, results are 
submitted to the Audit Committee, assisting the Board of Directors 
in their responsibility for strategic oversight of risk management 
activities.
39