02_BUSINESS MODEL AND GOVERNANCE_RISK MANAGEMENT
    
Key global risks identified in 2018 include risks related to product  Disaster Recovery Management is complementary to business 
quality and customer satisfaction; product portfolio and technology  continuity management as it entails strategies and processes to plan 
strategy; technology development and product launch; talent  for, respond to, and recover from significant business disruptions 
management; interruption of critical supplies and supplier quality;  impacting Information and Communications Technologies (ICT). 
regulatory compliance and commercial policies. Each key global  Many business functions are extremely time sensitive and cannot 
focus risk has been classified by risk categories and control  be interrupted for an extended period of time. Accordingly, disaster 
measures and mitigating actions are subsequently defined for each  recovery’s goals include minimizing downtime and restoring 
identified risk. business operations, and supporting applications within acceptable 
time frames.
For further details, see Significant Risks Identified and Control 
Measures Taken in the 2018 FCA Annual Report. The Disaster Recovery Team oversees program administration, 
governance, and compliance. The Chief Information Security Officer 
is responsible for ensuring that the Disaster Recovery program is 
BUSINESS CONTINUITY   executed within ICT.
MANAGEMENT Disaster Recovery enables FCA to:
• help ensure the safety and well-being of personnel, customers, 
and other individuals conducting business at FCA
Managing business operations and returning to normal production 
• minimize the loss of data, revenue, and customers in the event 
schedules when a catastrophic event causes a major disruption 
of a disaster 
requires planning and discipline. These potential events include 
• meet our contractual and legal obligations.
natural disasters, pandemics, facility issues, cyberattacks, or 
unforeseen events within our supply chain. Our business continuity  Because disruptions to business operations may also impact 
management is a structured and disciplined approach to reducing  non-manufacturing activities, FCA Services has also put Business 
the likelihood and severity of disruptions, and reducing recovery time  Continuity Plans (BCP) in place in its operations. FCA Services is 
in the event of a disruption. the shared service center dedicated to supporting FCA’s worldwide 
processes and activities within Finance, Taxation, HR Services 
The business continuity management process has four elements:
and Customs. The FCA Services Business Continuity Plan follows 
• Critical production processes for each plant are mapped to key 
the best practices and requirements of international standards 
inputs, including facility infrastructure, process equipment, data 
(FCA Services is ISO 27001 certified) and focuses on the safety of 
technology, human resources, and suppliers. Current recovery 
employees and on continuity of services.
strategies are documented. Data is made available to employees, 
and knowledge can be shared across business units and plants. This Plan includes:
• An  enterprise  impact  analysis  is  created  to  identify  plant  • Policies and Procedures followed by all FCA Services countries 
interrelationships,  and  the  resultant  financial  impact  of  each  • Enterprise  Risk  Assessment  and  Business  Impact  Analysis 
plant. Financial impact is also determined for individual vehicle or  to  identify  the  risks  and  evaluate  financial,  reputational  and 
component product lines within each plant. operational impact. To mitigate the risks, action plans and new 
• Key  operational  risks  and  mitigation  initiatives  may  then  be  countermeasures are implemented.
associated to any facet of the production system until resolved. • Key Performance Indicators to assess the correct alignment of all 
• A Business Continuity Plan is developed to summarize information  parties with the BCP requirements and the full achievement of all 
required for business recovery. A flexible approach allows each  objectives
plant to develop a situation-specific response. Elements of the  • Business Continuity Plans with all steps and actions to be taken 
plan are tested annually, at a minimum, through a simulation  in case of a disruption 
exercise. • disruption scenarios to be prepared addressing adverse situations
• consistent control and monitoring of events that could impact the 
The results and priorities of the Business Continuity Management 
business
process are reviewed regularly by management.
• testing, from simulation exercises to full testing, to ensure the 
By the end of 2018, Business Continuity Plans had been developed 
validity of the plan and involve and train employees
for 21 of the higher-risk manufacturing plants in the United States, 
• Business Continuity Plan enhancements as a result of testing 
Canada and Mexico, accounting for approximately 80% of FCA’s 
performed.
total NAFTA revenue attributed to vehicle sales. Plans have also 
All FCA Services Business Continuity activities are reviewed every 
been developed for a core set of supporting corporate functions in 
year by a Steering Committee as well as by internal and independent 
the U.S., Canada and Mexico that most directly impact operations.
external  auditors  to  assure  the  correctness  and  consistent 
improvement of the Business Continuity Plan.
40