01_MESSAGE TO STAKEHOLDERS_MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND THE CEO
    
The other significant technological shift that we are likely to see in  We also aim to offer our employees an inclusive work environment, 
the near future is related to electrification, which we also addressed  where everyone feels respected and valued, and we are proud to 
in our business plan. Our expectation is to continue reducing CO  have our efforts recognized by organizations such as the Thomson 
2
emissions through a combination of technologies aligned to the  Reuters D&I Index, which included FCA among the top 100 most 
vehicle mix, consumer needs and regulatory framework in each  diverse and inclusive organizations in the world.
market. By 2022, we intend to offer 12 electrified propulsion systems 
We decided to name our FCA Student Achievement Awards in 
on global architectures spanning the full range of vehicle segments 
honor of Sergio Marchionne, which is a way to reaffirm his principles 
and over 30 vehicle nameplates with electrified solutions.
and beliefs by supporting the most talented and deserving children 
The objectives we have set for the future, together with the significant  of our employees.
steps already taken, are clear evidence of our business principles 
The results we achieved, in terms of both growth and value, were 
and determination to ensure that the achievement of financial targets 
possible because of what FCA is today.
goes hand-in-hand with respect for all stakeholders.
We are a strong, competitive group that possesses some of the 
Among our sustainable initiatives in 2018, we implemented around 
most innovative technologies and one of the most extensive product 
5,000 environmental projects at our plants around the world, 
ranges and strongest brands in the world.
reducing our carbon footprint per vehicle produced by 27 percent 
compared with 2010 and reducing waste generated per vehicle  We are a flexible yet cohesive group, with a global footprint, and solid 
produced by 62 percent compared with 2010. enough to cope with any unexpected changes in market conditions.
Our corporate citizenship efforts are rooted in the FCA Code of  We wish to thank all of our shareholders and stakeholders for your 
Conduct and are aligned with the United Nations Sustainable  support, whether you have been with us for many years or just a few 
Development Goals. months. Your trust is fundamental for FCA as we embark on the next 
phase of our development.
We strive to enrich the vitality of the communities where we live and 
work by creating jobs, giving back through employee volunteering  February 22, 2019
and providing financial support through our charitable initiatives.
/s/John Elkann  /s/Mike Manley
During 2018, Group employees around the world volunteered 
John Elkann  Mike Manley
thousands of hours in support of a wide range of social projects.
CHAIRMAN  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
5