02_BUSINESS MODEL AND GOVERNANCE_RISK MANAGEMENT
    
LOSS PREVENTION   In 2018, FCA invested €21.2 million in targeted loss prevention and 
physical risk mitigation measures that led to a reduction in overall 
MANAGEMENT
loss expectancies of approximately €0.94 billion during the year. 
Figures relate to the insurance year from July 1, 2017 to June 30, 
Natural hazards can threaten the Group’s physical assets and  2018.
business continuity. Industrial losses from natural disasters such as 
By concentrating and strictly controlling the fire protection investments 
earthquakes, flooding, tornadoes or severe storms, are on the rise. 
at selected vital sites, an overall Global Efficiency Index (GEI) of 2.27 
Climate change will further alter the magnitude and frequency of 
was achieved, representing a reduction of €100 of Loss Expectancy 
these incidents, and may introduce new hazards in areas that have 
for every €2.27 invested. The Global Efficiency Index for loss mitigation 
not previously experienced them.
(GEI = cost of protection/reduction of expected damage) is recognized 
FCA employs a risk management policy strongly focused on loss  as a measure of effectiveness for industrial risk management. These 
prevention and mitigation to help prevent property damage that  actions made it possible for FCA to maintain 74% of the total insured 
could result in interruptions to our business. To be effective, loss  values certified by the insurance market as Highly Protected Risk (HPR). 
prevention must be embedded in day-to-day activities, in new  The HPR system reflects the highest level of loss prevention practice 
projects and initiatives, and is supported and promoted by the  and protection standards in combating property damage risks. Such 
organization’s highest levels of management. practice and protection standards must be assessed and certified by 
external, internationally-recognized experts.
More than 10 years ago, FCA created a center of competence whose 
mission is to develop advanced and innovative engineering solutions  To bolster the sustainability and resilience of the Group, the 
related to physical risks created by natural events. The goal of the  risk  management  function  launched  several  forward-looking 
competence center is to reduce the detection time of new natural  and innovative risk engineering approaches and solutions to 
hazard risk-related events and to quickly initiate loss prevention or  better understand the impacts of natural hazards and respond 
mitigation practices and procedures. Its focus is the allocation of  appropriately. The ability to assess losses and costs associated 
resources and efforts among risk reduction, risk sharing, disaster  with natural hazards is essential for better hazard mitigation. This 
response and recovery efforts. proactive approach will continue to reduce the detection time of 
newly developing or changing risks, and to promptly adapt the FCA 
Specific activities include monitoring and insuring against pure 
loss prevention and mitigation practices and procedures.
risks - such as fire, explosions, and natural disasters - and playing a 
central role in managing events that have the potential to impact the  The following projects are core operational activities:
continuity of operations or integrity of physical assets at the Group’s 
• insurable environmental risk management
1,033 sites worldwide covered by the insurance programs.
• earthquake risk re-engineering project
Our Risk Management policy aims to ensure that the Group has a  • flood risk re-engineering project 
consistent basis for measuring, controlling, monitoring and reporting  • parking lot risk management
risk at all levels. Four pillars describe our approach: • supplier risk management
• cyber risk management.
• preventing accidents or mitigating their effects
• adopting higher international standards for risk prevention  Further, the Group is developing ways to analyze the risk of tornadoes 
• minimizing  the  cost  of  risk  by  optimizing  loss  prevention,  at the most exposed sites, while identifying countermeasures to 
investment, self-insurance and risk transfer programs mitigate their impact.
• centralizing and consolidating relationships with global insurance 
markets.
The Loss Prevention Management process is conducted with the  “
In 2018, FCA invested  
support of external consulting firms that specialize in industrial risk. 
They use field audits to provide an impartial, in-depth and consistent 
€21.2 million in targeted  
assessment of risk across the Group.
loss prevention and  
During 2018, FCA’s risk management entities were responsible for 
managing 151 sites worldwide, representing 82% of total insured  physical risk mitigation 
value, based on 2019 insured values. To ensure that industrial risk 
measures.”
is adequately and efficiently monitored, more than 95% of FCA’s 
total insured value managed by Fiat Chrysler Risk Management 
is surveyed at least once every three years and more than 50% is 
surveyed annually. In 2018, 77 sites, representing approximately 
81% of FCA’s insured value, and 198 new projects were inspected 
or monitored to ensure conformity with international standards in 
loss prevention.
41