02_BUSINESS MODEL AND GOVERNANCE_RISK MANAGEMENT
    
Insurable Environmental Risks the expected building structural response, and the unique economic 
activities and asset values.
FCA uses an innovative environmental risk management 
In 2018, the collaboration consolidated the application of the 
methodology developed in collaboration with Environment, 
Integrated Approach to key Group sites worldwide. In particular:
Health and Safety (EHS) departments across the Group, a major 
international consultancy and certification firm, and an insurance  • the Level 1 analysis, which is aimed at quantitative and transparent 
partner. This program, which has become a cornerstone of the loss  seismic risk prioritization, covered 14 sites, bringing the total to 77 
prevention activities of FCA, enables the Group to: sites since the launch of the project
• the Level 2 analysis, providing quantitative seismic loss 
• obtain objective and quantified assessments of its insurable 
assessment, was applied to locations identified as top risks 
environmental exposures
during the Level 1 analysis, bringing the total to five sites since the 
• improve risk profiles of each functional area to minimize 
launch of the project
environmental risk costs
• the Level 3 analysis, consisting of on-site earthquake-specialized 
• understand and clearly communicate priorities and benefits
loss prevention engineers developing dedicated risk mitigating 
• inform the insurance market of activities to prevent and mitigate 
recommendations, was not applied to any plants in 2018.
potential environmental losses
• obtain environmental insurance coverage appropriate to the level 
of risk exposure and potential loss Flood Risk Project
• execute prevention activities in line with Group strategies.
An effective and objective flood risk assessment requires updated 
Ninety-two percent of FCA’s worldwide total insured value was 
risk maps obtained using advanced modeling tools. To confirm the 
analyzed and quantified using this methodology.
effectiveness of FCA methodologies, Fiat Chrysler Risk Management 
To validate information collected through 68 self-assessments, 23  has formed a working team consisting of specialists from the loss 
ad hoc on-site visits have been conducted at Group sites considered  prevention engineering departments of four recognized insurance 
representative in terms of size, activity and geographical distribution,  and reinsurance global leaders. Enabled by their natural hazard 
since the launch of the project. In 2018 alone, there were 25 self- research centers, the reinsurance companies provide mapping tools 
assessments and 4 ad hoc on-site visits. The visits were conducted  based on geomorphological satellite imagery and mathematical 
by environmental risk engineers from a leading global environmental  modeling for the first macro analysis of the risk portfolio. The 
risk insurer to validate the consistency of the self-assessments and  engineering departments of the insurance companies provide 
identify possible improvement opportunities. their risk analysis based on visual and instrumental interpretation 
techniques along with field checks.
These activities enable the development of the Group’s environmental 
maps, which provide a quantification of the overall level of risk,  This methodology for industrial flood risk assessment was applied 
using a scientifically-based certified self-assessment tool. Results  to 136 sites globally, and identified 78 sites where a second flood 
presented to the insurance market confirm that FCA’s environmental  risk study is recommended. Nineteen second level studies were 
risks have been adequately identified and quantified and are properly  completed in 2018.
managed, enabling the Group to secure comprehensive global 
insurance coverage.
Parking Lot Project
Earthquake Risk Project This global project aims to assess and proactively manage natural 
hazard risks that expose finished FCA vehicles stored in parking lots 
A robust risk management decision-making process requires  to damage such as fire, hail, natural hazards and external exposure.
quantitative estimates of expected losses due to seismic events. 
An international team comprised of logistics and risk management 
In the last decade, seismic events affecting industrialized countries 
specialists and supported by the Group risk engineering provider 
demonstrate that a structured risk-engineering program based on 
developed a risk mapping tool to:
sound risk estimation is vital to control exposure to potential property 
damage and business interruption. • collect key data to quantify and compare risks on accumulation 
and potential exposures
Fiat Chrysler Risk Management, in collaboration with specialized risk 
• produce both global exposures and specific hazard risk maps 
consultants and universities, developed the Integrated Approach to 
highlighting top risks and priorities
seismic risk assessment and management, a multi-level framework 
• define both prevention and protection risk treatment priorities and 
that allows simultaneous seismic risk assessment and rational 
outline the most appropriate action plans. 
allocation of available resources. Unlike traditional approaches to 
seismic risk, this methodology encompasses individual quantification  By the end of 2018, the project was expanded to 237 vehicle parking 
of all basic components of that risk: the seismic hazard of the site,  lots in 35 countries.
42