02_BUSINESS MODEL AND GOVERNANCE_RISK MANAGEMENT
    
Supply Chain Risk The methodology and reporting tools enable focused loss prevention 
supplier audits to be conducted and required information to be 
FCA strives to implement strategies that manage both everyday  collected to:
and exceptional risks along the supply chain, while better identifying 
• quantify the potential exposure to FCA
suppliers throughout its many tiers. It is critical to understand supplier 
• define the fire and natural hazard loss scenarios and quantify the 
profiles at lower tier levels to ensure a complete risk assessment 
production downtime
and response in the event of potential supply disruptions. Working 
• estimate the time to restart and time to resource
to develop tools that support supply chain mapping has become 
• identify potential equipment bottlenecks, critical equipment and 
an important focus. These data tools can provide FCA with an 
vital Tier 2 or 3 suppliers.
advantage of speed-to-resolution and prioritize FCA with resources 
over competitors. By the end of 2018, this methodology was applied to 52 suppliers 
identified as critical by the Purchasing team.
Suppliers who are identified under certain risk criteria are encouraged 
to work with FCA to ensure that risk management processes in place 
are able to secure the flow of key components.
Cyber Risk Management
To accommodate supplier size and organizational structure, we have 
adopted varied risk assessment techniques. Large, global suppliers  Fiat Chrysler Risk Management has created varied work groups, 
with well-structured risk management organizations are analyzed  made up of multidisciplinary specialists from FCA internal functions 
with deductive methodologies that measure their risk management  and departments as well as from insurance companies for 
and business continuity processes and procedures. Smaller suppliers  developing advanced and innovative risk engineering approaches 
are visited by a specialized loss prevention team that determines their  and solutions.
alignment with international loss prevention standards adopted by FCA 
Specialized teams composed of FCA cyber risk experts and 
and, where needed, recommend risk reduction action plans.
insurance market leaders, and coordinated by the Fiat Chrysler Risk 
The process, led by Fiat Chrysler Risk Management and FCA  Management loss prevention team, analyze globally the ICT macro 
Purchasing, begins with a simplified, semi-quantitative approach:  processes to verify alignment with industry best practices. Where 
already available information (financial, business, industrial and  necessary, they recommend focused improvements that further 
geopolitical) is used to prioritize suppliers. This helps focus  enhance their resilience. The risk management function ensures that 
engineering resources on those crucial suppliers with the greatest  this initiative is consistent with other risk management processes in 
potential impact or loss likelihood to FCA supply chains. A second  place.
step entails a methodology and supporting tool that allows FCA 
FCA’s dedicated cyber risk insurance coverage is designed on the 
to assign a risk management maturity index to the supplier risk 
basis of a comprehensive and thorough analysis of:
management processes. It is based on suppliers with mature risk 
management practices managing their risks and minimizing the  • the threats of exposure of vital company assets, including the 
probability of an extended production stoppage in one of their key  information that must be protected and at which level
manufacturing plants. The final step is to work with specialized third- • policies and procedures in place to reduce the risk of attack in the 
party risk engineering advisors to conduct focused loss prevention  event of a security breach
audits of targeted suppliers to identify and quantify risks that could  • plans and procedures in place to neutralize threats and remedy 
impact the supply of components to FCA and develop adequate  security issues.
action plans to mitigate those risks.
“
To accommodate supplier size and
organizational structure, we have adopted  
varied risk assessment techniques. ”
43