03_EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY_EMPLOYEES
    
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION FCA received a number of recognitions for our commitment to 
diversity in 2018. The Company is listed in the Thomson Reuters 
Diversity & Inclusion Index, which includes the most successful 
At FCA, we embrace a culture of diversity and inclusion that supports 
companies in promoting and leveraging diversity and inclusion in 
our desire to constantly push ourselves ahead, leading to innovation 
the workplace. FCA is the only automotive company to be included 
and excellence through collaboration and dynamic change.
in the 2018 index. We were also recognized as one of DiversityInc’s 
Employees are expected to follow the business ethics and  “Noteworthy Companies for Diversity” and were included in Latina 
behavioral expectations of FCA’s Code of Conduct that details the  Style’s 2018 list of Top 50 U.S. companies for Hispanic women to 
Group’s commitment to maintaining a fair, secure, productive and  work, marking the 15th year for this recognition.
inclusive workplace for all members of our workforce, one in which 
The Company offers employment opportunities for individuals with 
everyone is valued for their unique contributions to the Company. 
disabilities. A survey monitoring the employment of workers with 
The Company regards the diversity of our workforce as a key asset 
disabilities is performed every two years in countries where legally 
and does not tolerate any form of discrimination.
allowed. The latest survey of the number of disabled workers was 
We strive to ensure equal employment opportunities for members  completed in 2017 across 32 countries. Details are available in the 
of our workforce based on merit without regard to race, color,  2017 Sustainability Report.
sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, transgender status, age, 
FCA launched a campaign to raise awareness and provide timely 
protected veteran status, marital status, religion, national origin, 
information to employees on services to address a wide range of 
disability status, genetic information, or other basis protected 
disability issues. A two-day Diverse Abilities Awareness event at our  
by law. Promoting equal opportunities in the workplace is vital to 
U.S. technology center connected employees with representatives  
FCA’s human resources management and the Company’s long-
from organizations and support services to better understand how 
term success. A wider, more diverse pool of talent improves the 
and where to get individualized help for themselves or those they know.
Company’s understanding not only of our workforce, but that of our 
customer base as well.
Several programs are in place across the Group to foster a diverse 
and inclusive work environment among employees. The FCA US 
MANAGEMENT  
Diversity Council works to foster opportunities for, among others, 
women and ethnic minorities. Diversity within North America  AND DEVELOPMENT
is also represented by the Business Resource Groups (BRGs).  
The BRGs (African Ancestry Network, Latins in Connection Network, 
Our employees are a crucial factor in providing the Company 
Asians Connected Together, First Nations, Gay and Lesbian 
with the competitive edge needed in our industry. Consequently, 
Alliance, Women’s Alliance and the FCA Veterans’ Group) provide 
we invest considerable resources in employee management and 
multicultural learning opportunities, mentoring and networking for 
development, and operate according to the following leadership 
employees, and support for community outreach initiatives and 
principles:
charitable events.
• we recognize and reward performance
FCA is aligned with the vision of the United Nations Sustainable 
• we  define  leadership  as  leading  change  and  leading  people
Development Goal on Gender Equality through a number of 
• we embrace and cherish competition
activities that aim to advance the role of women in the automotive 
• we aim to achieve best-in-class performance
workforce. These include, among others, formal processes to 
• we collaborate and simplify decision-making, striving for speed, 
monitor the application of our core equity and fairness principles to 
rigor and discipline in all we do 
compensation levels, annual salary reviews and promotions, work-
• we value diversity and inclusion.
life balance arrangements, and events to foster interest in technical 
careers among women. We expect every decision, including the appointment of leaders, 
to be influenced by these foundational elements as we continue 
WOMEN BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY
our efforts to be an organization of best-in-class talent in today’s 
FCA worldwide (%)
automotive industry.
2018 2017 2016
Hourly 18.5 18.3 17.7
Salaried 29.5 28.9 29.1
Professional 20.6 20.5 20.1
Manager 16.7 16.1 15.0
Total workforce 20.2 20.0 19.7
47