03_EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY_EMPLOYEES
    
Talent Attraction Talent Management, Retention  
and Succession Planning
FCA recognizes the ever-evolving expectations of our workforce, 
especially as they relate to rewards and challenges that may be  FCA provides the means for our workers to grow professionally, 
different from those of the past. Aligning FCA’s current and future  which helps us retain and develop talented and motivated 
needs with skilled professionals, whether those already part of today’s  employees. The Human Resources organization, managers and all 
workforce, or those just beginning their career, makes attracting  other employees share duties and responsibility in this development, 
and retaining talented individuals a top priority at each step from  and this cooperation creates an attractive working environment and 
recruitment through retirement. a workforce equipped to respond to the challenges of our industry.
FCA has been involved for 13 years in supporting university teams  Performance and Leadership Management (PLM) is the appraisal 
that design and manufacture prototypes to compete in the European  system  adopted  worldwide  to  assess  the  performance  of 
Formula SAE events. FCA offers the teams our technical support  management, professional and salaried employees. This individual 
during the Italian competition held at the Circuit in Varano de’ Melegari  performance assessment process is one of the elements upon 
(Italy). which the variable compensation is based.
For five years, FCA has partnered with the Society of Automotive  The PLM process provides the framework for talent management 
Engineering’s Collegiate Design Series on a car-building competition  and succession planning. This rigorous, global process helps identify 
that takes students from the classroom to the race course in both  individuals with the technical and managerial skills needed for FCA 
Formula and Baja vehicle classifications. Student teams from several  and our employees to succeed.
universities work with more than 60 FCA engineers, and are provided 
Through PLM, specific targets are established to guide and assess 
the opportunity to test their vehicles at the Chelsea Proving Grounds 
employees in relation to their results and behaviors. Complete 
(U.S.). Through this program, the students develop many of the skills 
performance and leadership evaluations were conducted during 
used at FCA every day, including project management, budgets, 
2018 for approximately 53,000 FCA employees. Sustainability 
timing, design, building, testing and validation. Many student team 
targets are embedded into the business and thus are part of 
leaders manage teams of 15 - 50 students, helping them build 
organizational objectives used for annual performance evaluations. 
leadership skills and learn how to manage people to give their best 
This process encompasses virtually all salaried employees, with 
effort - attributes highly desired in the workplace.
further details to be found in the Facts and Figures section of this 
To support FCA efforts to attract the best talent, we sponsor programs  report.
such as the U.S. National Black MBA Association Graduate Student 
Talent reviews and succession planning processes are designed 
Case Competition. This annual event enables talented, high-potential 
to create opportunities for individuals to develop the leadership 
MBA candidates from the nation’s leading business schools to 
skills necessary to further FCA’s future growth. Such opportunities 
compete for €43,600 in scholarships. The solution they present gives 
include assignments to other geographic or business areas as well 
these students an opportunity to demonstrate their knowledge and 
as engagement with senior management. Approximately 6,000 
problem-solving skills to a multi-sector panel of business executives.
internal mobility opportunities were made available to FCA salaried 
We also have strategic relationships with several universities to  and hourly employees worldwide. This approach helps protect the 
help bridge the gap between the classroom and the Company.   Company’s future, leveraging our workforce by preparing the next 
These collaborations are designed to combine classroom education  leaders for their roles.
with hands-on industry-level experience. This gives students the 
opportunity to receive specialized instruction that caters to their 
career interests, while nurturing the skills needed for FCA’s future 
workforce.
In Italy, a new four-year agreement was recently signed to continue 
the collaboration between FCA and the Politecnico of Turin for the 
Automotive Engineering degree program. This program focuses 
on three main areas: teaching, research and internationalization.  
FCA employees are involved in lecturing and coordination activities. 
In 2018, FCA granted €1.6 million to support this degree program.
48