03_EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY_EMPLOYEES
    
Learning Management Through this learning platform, a training project called the 
Sustainability Boulevard was made available to roughly 40,000 
To  remain  competitive  in  an  auto  industry  undergoing  employees worldwide in 2018. This project, in its second edition, 
transformational change, employees are encouraged to envision a  provides  FCA  employees  with  clear  evidence  of  ways  our 
career that involves continuous learning. FCA offers a number of  sustainability efforts and results are integrated with our business, and 
development opportunities, including training, coaching, mentoring  how the various business areas can contribute to FCA’s sustainability 
and job rotations. efforts.
The Group invested approximately €40 million in training during 
2018, delivering 1.7 million hours of training to about 117,500 Group 
Dialogue with Employees
employees.
Investments in classroom, online and on-the-job training focused  We believe that dialogue is an important contributor to employee 
primarily on the Group’s four core training concepts: development  satisfaction, so FCA seeks to foster a company culture where new 
of job-specific know-how (71.9%), managerial skills (4.9%), cross- ideas are encouraged and valued at every level. Formal opportunities 
cultural awareness and language skills (12.0%) and corporate  for exchange and dialogue include town halls, engagement surveys, 
campaigns, rules and commitments (11.2%). employee  meetings,  team-building  events  and  department 
gatherings. We use these opportunities to plan and address specific 
Where possible, FCA endeavors to measure the direct business 
actions aimed at maximizing overall employee satisfaction and 
impact of our training activities, in addition to monitoring process 
engagement.
efficiencies and effectiveness. The Cost Deployment of Training 
model, used within the World Class Manufacturing (WCM) program, 
can be applied to a portion of total training costs. By monitoring 
on-the-job training and the associated generation of process 
improvements, FCA identified estimated savings of approximately 
€4 million enabled by a training cost of about €1.6 million in 2018.
Recently, a new approach to learning at FCA was launched through 
the FCA Learning City, an innovative virtual learning platform.  
2.4
This platform enables employees to grow, share and challenge   Million  
their individual professional skills with other colleagues in a learning 
suggestions from  
community that:
employees worldwide
• facilitates learning and self-development by means of gamification
• favors networking and sharing of expertise
• challenges top learners to resolve real business cases.
During 2018, more than 20,700 hourly and salaried employees 
This approach to learning puts employees at the center of 
were involved in various engagement surveys. In some instances, 
their development paths, in a setting of self-accountability and 
these engagement campaigns were customized to match an 
empowerment.
organizational need, and deployed to particular segments of the 
Company or to employees worldwide from the same business 
area. This and other information derived from the above-reported 
initiatives allow FCA to evaluate and develop appropriate actions.
Several tools and programs are also in place worldwide to collect 
suggestions from employees. The World Class Manufacturing 
(WCM) program offers our largest worldwide example of employee 
engagement. In 2018, 2.4 million WCM suggestions were collected 
to foster shared learning and best-in-class performance. Across 
the organization, other suggestion channels are available for the 
40,000+ collection of improvement proposals, resulting in an additional 
 employees  34,000  ideas  generated  through  direct  and  spontaneous 
invited to participate   engagement of employees worldwide.
in the Sustainability 
Boulevard training
49