03_EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY_EMPLOYEES
    
COMPENSATION   PRINCIPAL EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
FCA worldwide (% of employees eligible for benefit)
AND REWARD
Supplementary retirement plans 72
Company-provided health plans 89
FCA is committed to offering a total compensation system based on 
equitable and fair criteria, providing an inclusive work environment  Life insurance 68
and equal opportunities for workers. By rewarding employees’  Financial support for disability/invalidity 77
abilities and efforts, the Company’s compensation philosophy  Employee cafeteria or lunch vouchers 59
acknowledges the value of a high performance culture and the  Childcare services(1)  43
importance of a market-driven approach.
Wellness and nutrition programs(2)  73
The Company has defined a compensation system that involves  Gym/fitness services(3)  47
several  components.  This  comprehensive  package  rewards  Others(4)  40
employees for their contribution to the Company’s results, provides 
(1)Includes kindergarten, free gymnasium access for children, assistance with homework, summer 
development opportunities, and allows them to share in the business  camps/holidays, other services dedicated to childcare.
(2)Includes nutrition coaching, smoking cessation training, medical check-ups, medical screening, 
success they help create.
other wellness programs.
(3)Includes gymnasium access, gym/fitness courses and other sports initiatives.
FCA reviews many factors to determine base salary, benefits and  (4)Includes benefits such as company cars, transportation, housing, interest-free loans.
variable incentives, and strives for fair and objective treatment for 
employees around the world. The specific criteria for compensation 
adjustments focus on competitiveness with respect to market  WORK-LIFE BALANCE
position, giving priority to top performers. Variable compensation 
and career development are impacted by individual contribution, 
FCA offers programs and tools to help employees balance their 
which is vigorously evaluated through a common performance and 
personal and professional lives. Depending on the employee location 
leadership management framework that is deployed throughout 
and local requirements, FCA provides guidelines, processes, 
the entire organization, under which employees are assessed on 
technology enablers, tools, and collaborative workspaces to address 
an annual basis. Additionally, the Group monitors the application 
the expectations of an evolving labor market.
of our core equity and fairness principles relative to compensation 
Operational needs, the business climate, and compatibility of job 
levels, annual salary reviews and promotions. Managers and human 
assignments are considered as employees and managers explore 
resource professionals utilize defined guidelines, which are reviewed 
options that enable positive work-life integration. Advancements 
annually, in making compensation determinations.
in technology have allowed us to rethink traditional processes and 
increase efficiency while supporting our commitment to the well-
Benefits being of our employees.  Arrangements and initiatives to improve 
work-life balance include flextime, job-sharing, part-time or reduced 
In 2018, FCA reviewed the various company compensation  hours, telecommuting, compressed workweek/summer hours, 
and benefits available to the entire workforce and found that  parental leave and other leaves.
approximately 72% of employees are eligible for a supplementary 
In 2018, an assessment of Group companies revealed that roughly 
retirement plan. During 2018, approximately 79% of these 
19% of employees were covered by one or more of the available 
employees participated in this type of plan, representing roughly 
flexible working arrangements. Specifically, 3.5% of the workforce 
57% of the total employee base.
is employed part-time, of which about 52% are women; 2.6% took 
Supplementary retirement plans provided by the Group fall into two  parental leave related to childbirth and care; approximately 8.7% 
categories: defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans. participated in other types of leaves; and 3.8% were covered by other 
types of work schedule flexibility (e.g., flexible working hours, working 
Company-provided health plans are also available for FCA 
from home, job-sharing). The actual figure may be considerably 
employees, and more than 73% of the surveyed population 
higher, as this percentage does not include participation resulting 
participated in a company-provided health plan. Childcare services 
from informal agreements with local managers, which may not be 
are offered at some locations to help employees achieve work-life 
formalized or tracked.
effectiveness by responding to the needs of the family.
The Group supports equitable choices for maternity, paternity and 
The Group promotes a healthy lifestyle through comprehensive 
adoption benefits, which encourage employees to balance parental 
wellness programs and access to dedicated fitness facilities, which 
responsibilities with their careers. While labor law requirements may 
are available in certain areas.
vary from country to country, parental leaves are provided to all 
employees to the extent required to comply with local regulations. 
In some countries, the Group exceeds local requirements with 
dedicated policies.
50