03_EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY_EMPLOYEES
    
Return-to-work and retention rates following parental leave are two 
key indicators of the mid- and long-term capability of the Company 
to provide employees with career growth opportunities and achieve 
balance between their home and work lives. For further information, 
refer to the Facts and Figures section of this report.
Financial health is also an important aspect of work-life balance. 
€160
An FCA initiative in Italy called Conto Welfare allows employees   Million
to convert some of their pre-tax earnings into a spending account 
spending on health and safety
they can use on a wide range of health, wellness, well-being, 
care, education and pension benefits or services. In addition to 
the tax benefit, the Company contributes an additional five to ten  FCA has adopted World Class Manufacturing (WCM) methodologies 
percent toward their spending account. In 2018, more than 15,000  and tools, including a Health and Safety pillar, which also contribute 
employees enrolled in Conto Welfare. This initiative supported  to improving safety in a systematic manner. WCM is a rigorous 
employee welfare and work-life balance, granting more affordable  manufacturing methodology that involves the entire organization and 
access to services and resources from a wide range of local  encompasses all phases of production. See the Production section of 
providers. Flexible spending accounts available in the U.S. also give  this Report for more information about WCM.
eligible employees the opportunity to help pay for certain health care 
Effective implementation of health and safety standards at FCA facilities 
and dependent day care expenses by setting aside a portion of their 
is made possible through a combination of preventive measures and 
pre-tax earnings as a selection of their benefit choices.
the collaboration of employees. Employees are involved through 
Recently, in the U.S., FCA supplemented the financial resources and  training that focuses on the importance of safeguarding health and 
tools available to employees by offering a student loan refinancing  safety; complying with policies and procedures; contributing to the 
benefit. We recognize that this innovative offering is a way to attract  adoption of additional safety measures; and promoting appropriate 
and keep top talent who have invested in their education as well as  prevention behaviors across all organizational levels and roles. They 
the education of their children. are also engaged in initiatives designed to increase safety awareness 
and participate in a comprehensive system for gathering feedback and 
suggestions. Useful and implementable ideas are put into practice, 
shared across multiple facilities and incorporated into FCA’s OHSMS, 
OCCUPATIONAL  
and the project owners were recognized for their involvement.
HEALTH AND SAFETY FCA engages in ongoing dialogue about improving employee health 
and safety with the employee-representative bodies in accordance 
with current laws and the collective agreements applied in the various 
Throughout our facilities around the world, FCA aims to provide all 
countries in which the Group operates. The analysis conducted in 
employees with a safe, healthy and productive work environment. 
2018 revealed that 96.6% of employees covered by those bodies 
We focus on identifying and evaluating safety and health risks; 
were also represented on issues such as health and safety.
implementing health, safety and ergonomics standards; using 
collaborative  robots  in  manufacturing  operations;  promoting 
employee awareness and safe behavior; and encouraging a 
healthy lifestyle. Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) managers 
are responsible at the Group level for establishing health and safety 
operating procedures and standards, and for supporting local EHS 
professionals in implementing them. In addition, they are responsible 
for monitoring national and local legislation, as well as applicable 
health and safety rules and regulations. 1.0
 Million
The goal of achieving zero accidents is formalized in the targets 
set by the Company, as well as through the global adoption of an   safety training hours
Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OHSMS) 
certified to the OHSAS 18001 standard. FCA has committed that 
all of our plants operating worldwide in 2020 will be OHSAS 18001 
certified. At the end of 2018, 94 Group plants, representing 96% of 
manufacturing employees, or those directly or indirectly involved in 
manufacturing processes, were OHSAS 18001 certified.
51