03_EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY_EMPLOYEES
    
FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION   In 2018, an analysis was carried out in those countries that have 
not ratified fundamental International Labour Organization (ILO) 
AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
Conventions on freedom of association or the right to organize 
and collectively bargain. It covered over 98% of employees at 
FCA respects workforce members’ freedom of association, 
Group companies in Brazil, the U.S., Canada, Mexico, China, 
and publicly affirms this commitment in the FCA Human Rights 
India and Malaysia, and showed that the application of these 
Guidelines. These Guidelines state that business partners and 
rights and principles is ensured through local legislation.
suppliers with whom the Group does business are also expected 
to adhere to our standards, including, but not limited to, human  Relevant examples of collective bargaining agreements in 
rights. Moreover, the Sustainability Guidelines for Suppliers  countries where FCA has a significant presence are summarized 
describe expectations for Group suppliers and sub-tier suppliers  below.
worldwide.
Workforce members are free to choose to join a trade union 
in accordance with local law and the rules of the various  Italy
trade  union  organizations.  FCA  recognizes  and  respects 
the right of our employees to be represented by trade unions  41.5% Unionized 58.5% Nonunionized
or other representatives established in accordance with the 
locally applicable legislation and practice. When engaging in 
In Italy, all FCA employees are covered by collective bargaining 
negotiations with representatives, FCA’s actions and behavior 
agreements and all FCA companies apply the 2015-2018 company-
seek a constructive approach and relationship. As confirmation of 
specific collective labor agreement (CCSL). Negotiations with 
the importance the Group places on social dialogue, trade union 
signatory trade unions for its renewal began at the end of November 
representatives from Group companies were invited to participate 
2018 and on March 11, 2019 a four-year agreement was reached. 
in the all-day event when FCA presented the 2018-2022 business 
Meetings were also held with the trade union Fiom-Cgil, which is 
plan in June 2018.
not signatory to the CCSL, following its request to start negotiations 
At December 31, 2018, 88.8% of employees worldwide, including  having as reference its own document for collective bargaining. 
Sevel (Italy), were covered by collective bargaining agreements  Managers in Italy are also covered by a company collective bargaining 
at any level, based on an average figure that covers a variety  agreement.
of situations in accordance with regulations and practices in 
the various countries. In nonunionized companies, 97.7% of 
employees not covered by collective bargaining benefit from 
conditions that are supplemental to, or better than, the minimum  United States
required by law.
76.6% Unionized 23.4% Nonunionized
In 2018, a survey covering approximately 89% of the total 
workforce  worldwide,  including  Sevel  (Italy),  showed  that 
83.5% of employees were covered by representative bodies.  In the U.S., the Company applies the terms of the International Union, 
Representative bodies, generally elected by local plant workers,  United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers 
are entitled to be informed and consulted, and negotiate on  of America (UAW) - FCA US four-year national collective bargaining 
specific issues as provided by law or applicable collective  agreement signed in October 2015. This Agreement covers more than 
agreements. 49,000 employees and is in effect until September 14, 2019.
In the European Union countries, employee representative 
bodies are established for companies or sites where employee 
numbers exceed the minimum limits specified by national laws 
or procedures. In the NAFTA region, representatives are present 
at sites where a trade union has been established. In China, FCA 
employees are free to form a representative council in accordance 
with national labor laws, local rules and regulations.
In most countries, dialogue occurs through industrial and 
employers’ associations to which the Group companies belong.
54