03_EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY_EMPLOYEES
    
Canada Management of Production Levels 
91.6% Unionized 8.4% Nonunionized During 2018, the management of production levels varied within the 
regions based on market demand.
• In the EMEA region, the response strategy to the contrasting levels 
In Canada, FCA Canada LLC applies the terms of the four-year labor 
of market demand for certain models continued in 2018 leading to 
agreement signed in October 2016 covering more than 10,500 
the use of forms of flexibility depending on the required volumes. 
employees. The Agreement with Unifor is in effect until September 
In cases where it was necessary to manage temporarily reduced 
21, 2020.
production, the Company continued our policy for employment 
protection by taking advantage of temporary layoff schemes or 
schemes defined by collective bargaining or company policies. 
Mexico In 2018, the use of temporary layoff benefit schemes by Italian 
Group companies was often supported by training and retraining 
83.8% Unionized 16.2% Nonunionized programs for workers. 
• In April 2018, FCA Italy signed a trade union agreement for the 
Polo Produttivo Torino which includes the Mirafiori Plant / Unità 
In Mexico, FCA Mexico, S.A. de C.V. applies the four-year agreement 
Sottogruppi Lastratura Grugliasco and Avv. Giovanni Agnelli Plant 
reached in June 2016 with The Sindicato Nacional de Trabajadores 
(Italy) and provides for on-the-job training initiatives as well as 
de la Industria Automotriz Integrada Similares y Conexos de la 
training and retraining programs targeted at certain categories of 
Republica Mexicana representing more than 15,000 employees. 
employees to ensure their continued employability. To enable an 
This agreement is in effect until May 9, 2020.
overall rebalancing of employment and to set preconditions for 
potential opportunities of occupational turnover, the Company 
and the trade unions also agreed on the voluntary departure of 
employees close to meeting pension requirements. This will be 
managed through a procedure for workforce reduction of 1,050 
At the European level, regulations require that all community-scale  employees to be completed by the end of July 2019, and for the 
undertakings establish a European Works Council (EWC), which  payment of a voluntary redundancy incentive. 
ensures workers the right to information and consultation. FCA first  • The industrial plan for Italian plants was presented to the trade 
established an EWC in 1997 on the basis of the agreement signed in  unions in November 2018. It includes the launch of restyled 
1996, and which was subsequently renewed with amendments and  Maserati models currently produced at Polo Produttivo Torino and 
modifications. The last renewal agreement for the FCA EWC, signed  the installation of a full Battery Electric Vehicle (BEV) platform at 
in July 2016, was in effect until the end of 2018. As provided by the  the Mirafiori plant/Unità Sottogruppi Lastratura for the new Fiat 
agreement itself, it has been automatically renewed. 500 Elettrica. As a result, during retooling in 2019, employees 
will receive on-the-job training as well as other targeted training. 
Overall, in 2018, collective bargaining conducted in accordance with 
Since full working activity for all workers of Polo Produttivo Torino 
local law and practices, resulted in 349 trade union agreements at either 
is not expected in 2019, the consequent temporary overstaffing 
the Company or plant level.
will be managed through temporary layoff benefit schemes, in 
In 2018, the level of labor unrest and local labor action in Group  agreement with the trade unions.
companies was negligible and mostly related to local issues at individual  • In  Italy,  FCA’s  production  systems  brand,  Comau,  realigned 
plants. the mission of the Grugliasco site to address changes in the 
competitive  European  market  resulting  from  the  introduction 
of new technologies. In 2018, Comau started an investment 
program to introduce new products at the site, which resulted in 
a temporary overstaffing. This was managed through temporary 
layoff benefit schemes, in agreement with the trade unions. 
Subsequently, an agreement between the Company and the 
trade  unions  enabled  employees  close  to  fulfilling  pension 
requirements to leave the company on a voluntary basis by the 
end of June 2019. The agreement included the identification of 72 
redundancies. The parties also agreed on the amount that will be 
paid as a voluntary redundancy incentive.
55