03_EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY_EMPLOYEES
    
• At the beginning of 2018, activities of Comau Poland Sp. z o.o.  The agreement for the FCA European Works Council also specifies 
were terminated and the company was put in liquidation. This  conditions when employees are to be informed and consulted.
decision was due to the repositioning of Comau to align with 
Outside the European Union, local laws and practices apply:
current market demands for new products, technologies and 
services, and the reorganization of the Comau European footprint  • U.S.:  A  federal  law  known  as  the  Worker  Adjustment  and 
in line with emerging business opportunities. With a view to  Retraining Notification Act (WARN Act), which applies to both 
limiting the related social impact, an agreement was reached with  unionized  and  nonunionized  employment  sites,  requires  an 
all the trade union organizations.  employer to give a minimum of 60 days’ advance notice of any 
• In the NAFTA region, the Company has been realigning our  action that constitutes a plant closing or mass layoff. Several 
capacity to meet the demand for SUVs and trucks, utilizing the  states also regulate required notice periods for certain operational 
existing plant infrastructure. To support the change, the Company  changes.
continues to utilize flexible operating patterns at NAFTA region  • Canada:  Notice  of  termination  regulations  vary  by  province. 
facilities and assess the number of manufacturing employees  In Ontario, where the majority of the Canadian workforce is 
needed  to  support  our  current  and  anticipated  production  employed, notification must be given at least eight weeks prior to 
volumes. This assessment also includes additional engineering,  termination for employees with eight years or more of service. The 
research and development and other highly skilled employees  remaining FCA Canada LLC employees are located in Alberta and 
to support product development, sales, marketing and other  Quebec, where the maximum notice requirement is eight weeks 
corporate activities. for employees with more than ten years of service.
• In Argentina, the company utilized flexible operating patterns in 
At unionized sites and/or plants in the U.S. and Canada, the level of 
order to support the production of the new Fiat Cronos model.
union involvement is normally defined by the collective bargaining 
agreement signed between the company and the trade union and 
Minimum Notice Period   is applicable at the plant level. The agreements usually specify the 
for Operational Changes information and consultation procedures to be followed in such 
circumstances. At nonunionized plants, it is common practice 
Although regulations and practices from a local, regional and  to make a company-wide announcement to all employees of 
national level can vary, FCA strives to keep employee representatives  organizational changes relating to outsourcing, giving reasonable 
involved when operational changes impact employees. prior notice of the operation.
Within the European Union (EU), Directive 2001/23/EC stipulates  • Mexico: Companies are required to notify the Federal Arbitration 
that when a transfer of an undertaking, business, or part of  and the Conciliation Board, as well as the trade unions, prior to 
an undertaking or business occurs as a result of a legal transfer  any large-scale employee layoffs or plant closures. In Mexico, 
or merger, a disclosure and consultation process is required  according to Federal Labor Law, prior to any large-scale employee 
with employee representatives. The procedure must be initiated  layoffs or plant closures, companies are required to inform the 
reasonably in advance of the transfer. FCA companies comply with  Federal Labor Agency and the union. According to FCA´s Union 
this Directive as implemented by the relevant laws and regulations of  Bargaining Agreement, in case of any large-scale employee 
each EU member state. layoff, the Company and the Union will agree to the terms and 
conditions applicable to such layoff. However, no notification 
period is expressly defined in Mexican labor law.
• China: Labor Contract Law states that all operational changes 
“
such  as  reorganizations,  restructuring,  or  actions  reducing 
 FCA strives to keep  
the workforce by 20 or more employees or less than 20 but 
employee representatives  accounting for 10% of company employees must be notified to 
the labor union or to the employees 30 days in advance. The 
involved when  
company must also provide the local labor authorities with a 
operational changes   workforce reduction plan.
impact employees. ”
56