03_EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY_COMMUNITY
    
COMMUNITY
Our community investment activities reflect our  In 2018, nearly 13,000 employees took part in more than 1,800 
efforts to promote thriving, resilient communities.  Motor Citizens volunteer projects during work hours. In other areas, 
In 2018, we committed charitable resources for a  ad hoc volunteer activities are organized to target specific conditions 
and concerns. FCA employees around the world have volunteered 
value of about €24 million,(1) including contributions 
through such activities as donating blood, mentoring youth, cleaning 
from the FCA Foundation. 
up streams and rivers, packing and delivering food and other supplies 
In alignment with the United Nations Sustainable Development  to those in need, assisting following a natural disaster, among 
Goals, our social contribution efforts focus most particularly on  hundreds of other initiatives.
Quality Education; Gender Equality; Decent Work and Economic 
Examples of regional initiatives illustrate the breadth of FCA’s 
Growth; Reduced Inequality; Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure; 
engagement:
and Sustainable Cities and Communities.
The Group’s 2018 activities focused on a variety of causes: 35%  Revitalizing and beautifying communities,  
one neighborhood at a time
for education-related initiatives; 56% for community development 
and welfare, including health programs; 9% for emergency relief  Nearly 1,000 FCA Motor Citizen employee volunteers joined 
and other efforts. Our charitable giving was primarily in the form  the Detroit-based nonprofit Life Remodeled to help revitalize a 
of monetary contributions, which made up 84%, and the value of  neighborhood in Detroit during 2018. This marked the fourth year in a 
employee volunteerism, which represented 9%, while the remainder  row that Motor Citizens have joined forces with Life Remodeled, which 
consisted of in-kind donations (7%). represents the single largest deployment each year of FCA employee 
volunteers from the Company’s metro Detroit offices and facilities. 
A portion of the Group’s charitable activities is operated through 
During this week-long Life Remodeled project, volunteers planted 
the FCA Foundation, which is supported solely by FCA US and 
trees and perennial plants, built community gardens and installed 
governed by a Board of Trustees consisting of corporate executives. 
little free libraries. Volunteers also helped designate the safest routes 
The FCA Foundation directs its resources toward the focus areas of 
to schools with artwork, upgraded several parks, installed new bus 
youth development, education, community service, and support for 
shelters and added neighborhood signage. In addition to providing 
members of the U.S. military, veterans and their families.
much-needed human resources, FCA US and its charitable arm, the 
The Fundación FCA performs a similar role in Mexico.
FCA Foundation, donated a combined €43,600 to Life Remodeled.
In addition to monetary contributions from the Company, FCA 
In another urban community nearby, FCA employees partnered with 
encourages our employees to donate their time and skills. During 
Dream Centers of Michigan on a three-day outdoor beautification 
2018, FCA employees around the world volunteered more than 
program to spruce up residential streets and parks. Dream 
174,000 hours during work time in support of social projects. 
Centers of Michigan is a volunteer-driven nonprofit organization 
that serves low-income urban communities through collaboration 
with individuals and organizations that invest their time and talent. 
WORKING ALONGSIDE   Projects included cleaning-up blight, mowing lawns, painting, and 
light construction projects.
THE COMMUNITY
Big Brothers Big Sisters: mentoring youth in need
FCA recognizes the importance of building strong relationships with 
In 2018, FCA kicked off the second year of our site-based mentoring 
key community stakeholders. By working together, we can best 
program with Big Brothers Big Sisters, the oldest and largest youth 
understand where to apply our resources and make a positive impact 
mentoring organization in the U.S. FCA employees and elementary 
in our communities.
school students meet for one-on-one mentoring sessions at our 
We encourage our employees to lead by example; combining our  Auburn Hills location. Employees and students are paired for the 
charitable financial donations with volunteer opportunities allows us to  full academic year, participating in fun and challenging goal-setting 
address unique local needs as well as foster employee engagement.  activities. Through a grant from the FCA Foundation and the 
Formal policies govern employee volunteer efforts in some regions.  engagement of employee volunteers, we help provide youth facing 
FCA’s Motor Citizens program, for example, offers salaried employees  adversity with strong, enduring, professionally supported one-to-one 
in the U.S., Canada and Mexico a variety of engagement activities.  relationships.
(1) Based on non-accounting data and calculation methods which may include estimates. Amounts in currency other than Euro were converted based on exchange rate at December 31, 2018. The reported 
figure does not include initiatives whose sole purpose is to promote a brand. Amounts refer to all FCA companies worldwide consolidated on a line-by-line basis at December 31, 2018.
58