03_EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY_COMMUNITY
    
Supporting communities in an emergency Cooperárvore: combining entrepreneurship  
and environmental responsibility 
When disaster strikes, FCA and our employees mobilize to help 
the affected communities and victims. Depending on the need,  Another Brazilian program that focuses on local entrepreneurial 
this assistance may take the form of technical, humanitarian and  activities to generate income is Cooperárvore, a social cooperative 
financial aid. FCA’s disaster support also means helping nonprofit  formed in 2006 by women from the community surrounding the 
organizations to be prepared before an emergency, so they can be  FCA Betim plant. FCA donates fabric and seat belt remnants 
ready to deploy their resources. from the plant, and Cooperárvore transforms them into fashion 
accessories and other items. Over the past 12 years, Cooperárvore 
In 2018, violent storms such as Hurricanes Florence and Michael 
has contributed to improving the quality of life for more than 70 
had a devastating impact on thousands of lives, and in some cases, 
households in the area. Since it was created, Cooperárvore has 
entire communities. The FCA Foundation contributed €174,600 in 
repurposed about 38 tons of material and produced 270,000 
grants to three organizations providing support to residents and 
products. Besides the positive impact on the families involved, the 
communities affected by these events: Americares, which responds 
program illustrates the benefits of the circular economy, putting 
to natural disasters and humanitarian crises worldwide; Team 
potential waste to good use.
Rubicon, which unites the skills and experiences of U.S. military 
veterans with first responders to rapidly deploy emergency response 
Rain Water Harvesting Program 
teams; and First Response Team of America, which provides post-
disaster services for search and rescue and recovery operations. In India, water scarcity is a critical issue facing communities and the 
resident population. Fiat India Automobiles Private Limited (FIAPL) 
Social Team Building: impacting local community needs launched a Rain Water Harvesting (RWH) project in 2014 in water-
deficient areas of the Pune District in Maharashtra. During 2017 and 
FCA employees in Italy are given the opportunity to participate in a 
2018, the company has created additional rain water harvesting 
social team building activity. Partnering with local municipalities and 
opportunities with the potential to capture 265 million liters in seven 
districts, FCA assesses community needs and directs our efforts to 
villages. In the affected communities, these efforts have resulted 
positively impact them. In 2018, a group of FCA employees from 
in an increase in the ground water table, an increase in the area 
the Turin (Italy) area participated in an improvisation theatrical show 
under irrigation, a reduction in tanker water supply during summer, 
for children with serious illnesses. Another employee volunteer 
increased awareness of water conservation concepts and improved 
project during 2018 involved beautifying a Turin-area high school, 
sustainable management of scarce water resources.
including painting and freshening the interior of the building to make 
the learning experience more enjoyable for students. Participating in  A recent partnership between FCA and 3M extended our water 
these activities together helps promote a sense of belonging among  conservation works to the drought-prone areas of the Latur District in 
employees, and strengthens the relationship between the Company  Maharashtra. This partnership involves water conservation activities 
and the communities where we do business. at 25 sites, which have the potential to create rain water harvesting 
opportunities of 134 million liters.
Árvore da Vida: developing local communities
Share Your Heart: Crowdfunding FCA Japan
Since 2004, FCA has supported a unique social project called 
Árvore da Vida in the Jardim Teresópolis community, near the  Since 2014, FCA has been supporting local communities in Japan 
FCA Plant in Betim (Brazil). The program aims to promote social,  through a crowdfunding activity called “Share Your Heart.” Projects 
cultural and economic growth by encouraging the independence  are chosen based on the causes that are embraced by FCA brands, 
and empowerment of local residents. More than 22,400 people  including education for children, female empowerment, inclusion, 
have benefited from the program since its inception. In 2018, one  community support, environmental protection, and hospitalized 
of the most challenging goals of the program was fulfilled: Árvore da  children. The initiative aims to “connect hearts and share happiness” 
Vida became a nonprofit institute composed of, and managed by,  among our internal and external stakeholders. In the past five years, 
members of the community and individuals who have participated  the platform has raised approximately €230,000 for 34 projects as a 
in the program throughout its history. Through the institute, the  result of donations from more than 2,400 contributors.
community will assume a leading role, make all relevant decisions 
and define its own partnerships, which could include FCA, 
governmental entities, or other companies - thus greatly expanding 
the available opportunities.
59