03_EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY_COMMUNITY
    
ADVANCING EDUCATION FIRST Robotics
FCA and the FCA Foundation aim to engage students in STEM-
A significant portion of FCA’s community engagement is focused  related activities at a young age through programs such as FIRST 
on education and helping develop the workforce of tomorrow.  (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology), an 
We partner with academic and nonprofit organizations across the  international, not-for-profit organization founded to inspire young 
globe to promote educational opportunities, and subsequently,  people’s interest and participation in science and technology.
employability. These partnerships include programs to mentor youth, 
In 2018, the FCA Foundation awarded approximately €470,000 
encourage them to remain in school, and help them develop the life 
in grants to FIRST programs in the U.S. and Canada. More than 
and technical skills necessary to succeed. Many of our initiatives 
90 FCA employees served as team mentors to guide 120 student 
aim to expand science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) 
teams at the grade school, high school and middle school levels 
skills and opportunities, as the demand for skilled professionals is 
to design, build and program robots to perform prescribed tasks 
expected to continue to grow across the automotive industry.
against a field of competitors. Through this process, students learn 
basic physics, electrical and mechanical engineering, and machining 
e.DO Experience for Young Generations
skills, as well as teamwork and collaboration.
In 2018, FCA’s production systems brand, Comau, launched a 
The FIRST Robotics Championship was held in Detroit in 2018, with 
program of innovative training courses in Italy centered on digital 
the FCA Foundation serving as the Volunteer Sponsor for the event. 
transformation and robotics. More than 5,000 students had the 
Approximately 700 robotics teams from 37 countries participated. 
opportunity to participate in the “Robotic Experience” project, which 
Teams supported by FCA mentors earned top honors, including 
is offered from elementary to high school. The courses range from 
the highest honor given at the competition, the Chairman’s Award, 
basic digital literacy to advanced programming certifications, and 
which recognizes the team that best represents the model for other 
include training for teachers. e.DO, a modular robot that Comau 
teams to emulate. Another supported team was a member of the 
created for the program, engages and entertains students while 
four-team alliance that took first place, winning the FIRST Robotics 
teaching basic coding, robotics and STEM skills. The training 
Competition. Other teams were recognized with the Engineering 
can lead to completion of the Patentino della Robotica (Robotics 
Inspiration Award, Creativity Award, Entrepreneurship Award, and 
License), which is recognized by the Italian Ministry of Education 
the Innovation in Control Award.
as work-related learning that can be used as certification for future 
employment. The FCA Foundation increased its support for FIRST programs in 
underserved communities, including providing funding at the middle 
Based on the success of this program in Italy, Comau launched a 
school level. This will help build a pipeline of young students and 
similar robotics training project in China, in cooperation with the 
inspire them to maintain interest in STEM fields throughout their 
Xinqiao Vocational and Technical School. In 2018, more than 100 
academic careers.
teachers and students participated, and the initiative received 
recognition from the Shanghai Songjiang Government.
Alternanza Scuola-Lavoro
Alternanza Scuola-Lavoro is an initiative administered by the Italian 
government that aims to familiarize high school students in Italy 
with real working situations. The program offers an alternative to 
traditional classroom learning through work-school programs at a 
variety of companies. To support the initiative, FCA launched the 
FCA for Education project in 2016. FCA for Education consists 
of two initiatives: FCA Adoption and FCAe_discovery. These two 
projects represented an FCA investment of approximately €142,000 
in 2018 and roughly 5,850 hours volunteered by FCA employees.
“
We partner with academic and nonprofit 
organizations across the globe 
to promote educational opportunities. ”
60