02_BUSINESS MODEL AND GOVERNANCE_BUSINESS MODEL AND VALUE CHAIN
    
BUSINESS MODEL AND VALUE CHAIN
Fiat Chrysler Automobiles is a global automotive  Central to FCA’s approach is the belief that effective, lasting 
group  engaged  in  designing,  engineering,  solutions to climate change and other pressing environmental and 
manufacturing, distributing and selling vehicles,  social issues can only be achieved through an integrated approach 
that combines individual and collective commitment; an effective 
components and production systems worldwide 
multi-stakeholder  strategy;  investment  in  enabling  premium 
through 102 manufacturing facilities and 46 research 
processes and technologies; and the incorporation of circular 
and development centers. The Group’s automotive 
economy principles in operations. All of these elements are an 
brands are: Abarth, Alfa Romeo, Chrysler, Dodge, 
integral part of FCA’s model of operating responsibly.
Fiat,  Fiat  Professional,  Jeep,  Lancia,  Ram, 
On June 1, 2018, the Group revealed the 2018-2022 business 
Maserati, the SRT performance vehicle designation 
plan with a focus on technology development: autonomous driving, 
and Mopar, the parts and service brand.
vehicle connectivity and electrification deployment. Among other 
In addition, FCA operates in the components and production  things, the plan anticipates that we will offer 12 electrified propulsion 
systems sectors under the Teksid and Comau brands. The Group  systems (battery electric, plug-in hybrid electric, full hybrid and mild 
also provides retail and dealer finance, leasing and rental services  hybrid) in global architectures spanning the full range of vehicle 
in support of the car business through subsidiaries, joint ventures  segments. The plan also anticipates that by 2022, 30 nameplates 
and commercial agreements with specialized financing services  will feature one or more of these systems.
providers.
Our efforts to achieve progress toward the business plan reflects 
FCA has operations in more than 40 countries, customers in more  our commitment to create long-term value responsibly, with full 
than 135 countries, and business partnerships with suppliers and  recognition of the broader role the Company plays.
dealers on a global scale. Due to the complexity of the automotive 
To achieve our objectives, the Group targets:
industry’s value chain and product offering, FCA impacts a large 
• a governance model based on transparency and integrity
number and wide variety of stakeholders. We aim to create value 
• safe and sustainable products
through  our  relationships  and  connections  with  customers, 
• a competitive product offering and innovative mobility solutions
employees, dealers, suppliers and communities, among others.  
• effective communication with consumers
We recognize that our environmental and social activities affect not 
• constructive management and professional development of 
only our aspiration to grow the business but also our commitment to 
employees
positively affect our world.
• safe working conditions and respect for human rights
Emerging trends, evolving consumer attitudes and regulatory  • mutually beneficial relationships with business partners and local 
requirements influence not only which products and services we  communities
develop, but also how we develop them. FCA incorporates the  • responsible management of manufacturing and non-manufacturing 
concept of a circular economy into our business approach, focusing  processes to reduce impacts on the environment.
on reducing waste in every link in the value chain from vehicle 
design through production, distribution, use and eventual reuse of 
materials.
“
Our efforts to achieve progress 
toward the business plan reflects 
our commitment to create  
long-term value responsibly.”
7