03_EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITY_COMMUNITY
    
FCA Adoption is the adoption by the Company of high schools located  Michigan Council of Women in Technology
near FCA plants. Adopted schools participate in a comprehensive 
FCA is engaged in a number of initiatives to promote studies and 
work-school program. Students have the opportunity to learn from 
careers in technical fields among segments of the population that 
FCA managers about the various professional paths available in a 
may be under-represented in science, technology, engineering and 
global company. They can participate in typical work situations such as 
math (STEM) vocations. We partner, for example, with the Michigan 
meetings, brainstorming, on-site audits and systems analysis. In 2018, 
Council of Women in Technology (MCWT) Foundation on programs 
1,400 students from 15 high schools were enrolled in this program.
such as “GET-IT” (Girls Exploring Together Information Technology). 
FCAe_discovery is an online product for students, with tutors  This after-school team activity runs throughout the school year 
available to assist when needed. The content teaches students  and is designed to encourage high school girls to consider and 
about all aspects of a company from the inside out, with a special  ultimately pursue a STEM-related career. In 2018, FCA hosted 75 
focus on the automotive industry. Because this project is provided  young women from Detroit-area schools for a “GET-IT” event at our 
online, any school in Italy has the opportunity to participate, even  facility in Auburn Hills (U.S.). The day offered an opportunity for the 
if they are not located near an FCA facility. In 2018, approximately  students to meet with FCA employees and explore technologies 
7,300 students took part. such as augmented reality with the professionals responsible for 
implementing them. The program also helps prepare students 
Winning Futures for college, strengthening their teamwork, problem-solving and 
organization abilities. Throughout 2018, FCA employees volunteered 
FCA is helping challenged high school students in the U.S. through 
nearly 400 hours to a variety of programs offered with MCWT.
the Workforce Prep program offered by Winning Futures. Workforce 
Prep is an in-school mentoring and leadership skills development 
Masters in Manufacturing 4.0
program that addresses the critical need to better prepare students 
for life and careers after high school. Through a €43,600 grant from  To train graduates for a role within the manufacturing industry, FCA’s 
the FCA Foundation in 2018 and the support of FCA employee  production systems company, Comau, collaborated with Politecnico 
volunteers, students gained critical workplace skills and hands- of Turin (Italy) to create a Masters in Manufacturing 4.0 program. 
on experience, empowering them with the tools, knowledge and  Funded by the Region of Piedmont, this two-year postgraduate 
motivation they will need to realize a meaningful career and upward  program is designed to attract the best graduates in engineering 
mobility. from Italian and foreign universities, and provide them specialized 
training in industrial automation. The curriculum also includes 
School LEAP Program a focus on environmental sustainability and vehicle emissions 
reduction. Courses are taught in part by Comau managers and 
Fiat India Automobiles Private Limited (FIAPL) supports the School 
are conducted entirely in English, with 660 hours of project work 
LEAP program which aims to improve access to quality education for 
at Comau in the second year. Many engineers were hired into the 
students through digital literacy and effective teaching and learning 
Comau apprenticeship program from the seven graduating classes, 
tools. The program also strives to enhance the learning environment 
a clear indication of the success of the program.
and improve educational outcomes. The School LEAP program was 
launched in six government schools in Shirur (India) for class 1 to 
Rota do Saber
7 standard. The initiative will focus on overall school development, 
with the involvement of students, teachers, the school Management  FCA launched the Rota do Saber program in 2015, near the 
Committee, parents and the local community. Company’s plant in Goiana (Brazil). This program trains elementary 
school teachers and school administrators to improve public 
MeccaniCotto education. In the city of Igarassu, where the program has been in 
place for three years, the Basic Education Development Index in 
FCA’s parts and service brand, Mopar, leads the MeccaniCotto project 
elementary school grew 46%, from 2.8 to 4.1, exceeding the target 
in collaboration with the Cottolengo school in Turin (Italy). Cottolengo, 
of 3.8 defined by the Brazilian Government. In 2018, the Rota do 
which has a two-century history of helping the disadvantaged, 
Saber initiative was expanded to the city of Betim, reaching an 
focused their 2018 efforts on bringing autistic students into the 
additional 30,000 students, 1,000 teachers and about 69 schools.
program. This initiative is aimed at helping young students enter the 
working environment, providing them with the necessary skills to 
work in vehicle maintenance. Mopar supplied the school with working 
labs, tools and equipment, and provided training on quick service 
processes and standards to Cottolengo’s trainers.
61