04_PRODUCTS AND CUSTOMERS_RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
    
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
FCA’s global research and development activities  INNOVATION AND COLLABORATION
are aimed at improving the design, performance, 
safety,  fuel  efficiency,  reliability,  consumer  FCA fosters innovation by encouraging creativity among our 
perception  and  sustainability  of  the  Group’s  workforce, as well as through collaboration with suppliers and 
products and services. external organizations such as universities, research centers and other 
institutions. Inviting, including and empowering diverse viewpoints can 
During our 2018 sustainability-focused stakeholder engagements, 
promote more effective collaborations, innovation and better decision 
FCA stakeholders reconfirmed research and innovation as one of the 
making.
key material topics for the Group.
Product and process improvements may also result from suggestions 
In 2018, the Group invested approximately €3.5 billion in research 
and ideas from other FCA areas, in addition to Engineering. In 2018, 
and development, representing around 3.2% of net revenues from 
the global World Class Manufacturing program that promotes 
industrial operations. Approximately 18,000 employees at 46 locations 
employee suggestions to improve processes produced 2.4 million 
worldwide were involved in the Group’s innovation activities, continuing 
suggestions. The most actionable suggestions were implemented 
to generate a significant intellectual property portfolio. At year-end 
and the project owners were recognized for their contributions.
2018, FCA had 5,726 patents and patent applications, and 1,941 
protected product designs. Patent applications are filed in Europe, the  Among other methods, FCA stimulates innovation internally through 
U.S. and around the world to protect technology and improvements  training and workshops at our Innovation Spaces located around 
considered important to our business. the world. The Innovation Teams support employees with idea 
generation, problem solving, process optimization, and strategy 
Important areas of focus for the Group’s research and development 
and vision development. Creative and unique approaches are 
activities and business plan include:
used to unlock alternative thinking and generate new solutions. 
• continuing  to  collaborate  and  partner  with  technology  and  One interesting technique explored is biomimicry, an approach to 
auto industry leaders - these initiatives provide the opportunity  innovation that seeks solutions to human challenges by emulating 
to leverage each other’s capabilities and achieve the synergies  nature’s designs and processes.
and economies of scale needed to advance the development of 
autonomous driving technologies
• continuing to invest in a suite of technical solutions to keep pace  Collaborative Research
with evolving regulatory requirements in each region while, at the 
The Group engages in long-standing collaborations with universities, 
same time, enhancing the specific strengths of our brands
research centers and other industrial players, through research 
• expecting to offer more than 30 vehicle nameplates with electrified 
groups and joint projects. These close ties are instrumental in 
solutions.
encouraging creative thinking, rewarding talent and leveraging 
The global innovation and product development activities are  synergies. Collaboration is promoted in many different ways by the 
centrally coordinated by the Chief Technology Officer (CTO). In  individual FCA companies and across the Group.
particular, the CTO leads FCA Research and Development (R&D) 
FCA’s collaboration with Politecnico of Turin (Italy) and the University 
and is responsible for stimulating opportunities for synergies and 
of Windsor (Canada) through the International Dual Master’s Degree 
technology transfer across the entire enterprise.
(IDMD) Program demonstrates our commitment to global research 
The primary FCA R&D facilities are located in Turin and Modena (Italy),  and internationalization. Additionally, FCA completed the Leadership 
Auburn Hills (U.S.) and Windsor (Canada). In 2018, a new facility was  in Automotive Powertrain (LEAP 1) project with McMaster University 
dedicated at FCA’s Chelsea Proving Grounds (U.S.) to further develop  (Canada)  to  develop  next-generation,  energy-efficient,  high-
and test autonomous vehicle and advanced safety technologies. The  performance, cost effective electrified powertrain components 
facility was built for testing various levels of autonomy and enables  and control systems suitable for a range of vehicle applications. 
the Company to evaluate FCA vehicles using test protocols from third  This collaboration has been renewed for three years as the “Car of 
parties, such as the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS),  the Future” project, and has contributed substantially to technical 
U.S. New Car Assessment Program (NCAP) and European New Car  advancements, but just as importantly, to the expansion of existing 
Assessment Program (EuroNCAP), plus additional electronic brake  FCA employee competency and to new employees engaged in the 
test simulations. field of hybrid and electric vehicle technologies.
64