04_PRODUCTS AND CUSTOMERS_RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
    
FCA US is a member of the United States Council for Automotive  Collaborative Research Projects: 
Research (USCAR), a collaborative technology organization aimed  European Technology Platform
at strengthening the technology base of the U.S. auto industry 
through cooperative research and development. Participation in  FCA, through CRF, our research center in Europe, plays an active 
USCAR provides access to more than 400 projects with national  role in the European Technology Platforms. It is the focal point for 
laboratories, research centers, industry partners and universities in  collaborative research programs on topics related to, among others, 
conjunction with U.S. DRIVE, a partnership between USCAR, the  autonomous driving; connectivity; electrification and eco-driving; 
U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), and energy and utility companies.  lightweighting and materials; and circular economy initiatives.
USCAR is also involved, through collaboration with the United 
States Advanced Battery Consortium (USABC), with 25 active and 
completed advanced battery technology programs with a total 
cost-shared value of nearly €73 million. The USCAR/USABC/DOE 
collaboration allows for a total of approximately €106 million of cost-
shared funding over a five-year period for the advancement of battery  AUTONOMOUS DRIVING
technology. The emphasis of this collaboration is to accelerate the 
development of automotive battery technology among industry 
FCA’s 2018-2022 business plan, presented in June 2018, describes 
partners within the U.S.
the challenges and opportunities presented by the advances in 
autonomous vehicle technology. We are devoting resources to 
research and develop an approach to address changing consumer 
expectations driven by growing demand for safety, convenience, 
mobility-as-a-service, connectivity and quality time. Autonomous 
technology demonstrates the ability of vehicle systems to take over 
an increasing number of tasks which are currently performed by 
the driver.
Our plan involves pursuing a multi-partner strategy for developing 
advanced driver assistance and autonomous driving technologies, 
working with leaders in their respective industries.
Human RESPONSIBILITY  Machine
LEVEL 1 LEVEL 2 LEVEL 2+ LEVEL 3 LEVEL 4 LEVEL 5
Hands off 
Hands, Eyes off 
Hands on the  + 
Hands off  + 
steering wheel  Eyes off 
R +  Mind off
E Most   +  (but available 
V Eyes on
RI functions Responsible  to take over)
D
for lane changes Fully automated  M
Steering (and)  E
Fully automated  driving under  T
acceleration/  S
Steering (and)  deceleration  driving under  all conditions SY
acceleration/  limited 
+ 
Steering (and)  deceleration  conditions 
M Steering (or)  Automated 
E acceleration/  +  (does not work in 
T acceleration/  lane changes 
S deceleration Automated  unmapped areas)
Y deceleration (failure: pulls over  
S
lane changes
to side of road)
65