04_PRODUCTS AND CUSTOMERS_RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
    
We are collaborating with Waymo, Google’s self-driving technology  CYBERSECURITY
company, to integrate its self-driving technology into the Chrysler 
Pacifica Hybrid. Production of the first 100 Chrysler Pacifica Hybrid 
Although “being connected” has gained in importance among 
minivans built to enable fully self-driving operations was completed 
many individuals, there is a fast-growing concern in the automotive 
in late 2016, with nearly 600 minivans joining Waymo’s self-driving 
industry related to cybersecurity. In response, FCA has put in place a 
test fleet to date. In 2018, we announced that we would expand our 
cross-functional team of professionals focused on the cybersecurity 
partnership with an agreement to add up to 62,000 Chrysler Pacifica 
of our corporate systems and vehicles through activities such as 
Hybrid minivans to Waymo’s self-driving fleet.
threat monitoring, design enhancements, and third-party penetration 
We have launched Highway Assist autonomous vehicle technology  testing. Cybersecurity is considered throughout a vehicle’s life 
on several Maserati models. This system includes Mobileye vision  cycle, including during development, manufacturing and service. 
technology to enable autonomous driving on designated highways.  In addition, FCA continues to offer a financial reward for discovery 
We are also partnering with BMW for Level 3 autonomy and with  and reporting of potential cybersecurity vulnerabilities through a 
Aptiv for Level 2+ advanced driver assistance retail solutions.  crowdsourced bounty program. FCA is a founding member with 
FCA is also working with our suppliers to develop a cloud-based  active engagement in the Automotive - Information Sharing and 
global connectivity solution that will connect to the Internet and  Analysis Center (Auto-ISAC). The Auto-ISAC enhances the industry’s 
an FCA-specific service delivery platform to allow the driver  ability to quickly learn of new threats and vulnerabilities and to work 
and passengers to interact with the car and the outside world.   in a collaborative manner on threat triage.
The solution is intended to be scalable, increase safety and security, 
and provide real time availability of services and information.
“
We announced an agreement to add  
up to 62,000 Chrysler Pacifica Hybrid 
minivans to Waymo’s self-driving fleet.”
66