04_PRODUCTS AND CUSTOMERS_EFFICIENT POWERTRAINS AND TECHNOLOGIES
    
POWERTRAINS AND ELECTRIFIED  Electric and Hybrid Technologies
PROPULSION TECHNOLOGIES  FCA has developed a suite of electrification technologies, including: 
12-volt engine stop-start, 48-volt mild hybrid, plug-in hybrid, and 
Maximizing powertrain efficiency is part of FCA’s commitment to  full battery electric vehicles, all of which offer improvements in fuel 
reduce vehicle CO emissions and improve fuel economy. This  economy and a reduction in CO emissions. These developments 
2 2
means not only developing more efficient engines and transmissions,  have occurred at FCA technical centers primarily in Auburn Hills 
but also optimizing the vehicle/powertrain systems. Selection of the  (U.S.), Modena and Turin (Italy). Substantial work has also been 
most suitable powertrain is based on vehicle type and use. performed with suppliers and universities located around the globe.
The 12-volt stop-start system turns off the engine and fuel flow 
Engines
automatically when the vehicle comes to a halt and re-starts the 
New global small and global medium displacement gasoline  engine upon the driver disengaging the brake. Phase-in of this 
engine families have been developed to improve fuel economy and  technology began in 2013 model year and in 2018 it was used in 
emissions. These engine families feature a modular approach using  approximately 42% of FCA’s global production volume.
a shared cylinder design (allowing for different engine configurations, 
In 2018, FCA launched three applications of mild hybrids using 
displacements, efficiency and power outputs). When fully deployed, 
belt starter generator (BSG) technology. BSG technology offers 
these engine families will cover a large range of vehicle applications 
improvements in fuel economy and a reduction in CO emissions. 
and introduce features and technologies such as direct fuel injection,  2
This new 48-volt mild hybrid technology is marketed as “eTorque” 
downsizing, integrated exhaust manifold, Multiair variable valve lift, 
in the all-new 2018 Jeep Wrangler equipped with the 2.0-liter 
turbocharging, and cooled exhaust gas recirculation. All of these 
turbo engine and the all-new 2019 Ram 1500 3.6-liter and 5.7-liter 
features enable the engine families to be competitive among small 
applications. The system offers faster and smoother stop-start 
and medium displacement engines with respect to fuel consumption, 
functionality, a real-time powertrain efficiency optimization manager 
performance, weight and noise, vibration and harshness (NVH) 
which balances motor and engine torque, enhanced and extended 
behavior.
fuel shut-off during certain maneuvers, and regenerative braking to 
Both a 1.0-liter three cylinder and a 1.3-liter four cylinder naturally  recharge the 48-volt battery. The system also delivers significant 
aspirated Firefly global small engine were launched in the LATAM  gains in fuel economy. For example, the 2019 Ram 1500 5.7-liter 
region in 2016, and in 2018 the turbocharged variants of the global  HEMI V-8 equipped with eTorque has a 13% improvement in city fuel 
small engine launched in the EMEA region (in the Jeep Renegade  economy and 10% reduction in combined CO over the base HEMI 
2
and Fiat 500X). In November 2018, FCA announced a new module  in a 4x2 Crew Cab model.
at the Termoli plant (Italy) for production of turbo, naturally-aspirated 
The Chrysler Pacifica Hybrid achieves an efficiency rating of 82 
and hybrid versions of the 1.0-liter and 1.3-liter Firefly engine.
miles per gallon equivalent (MPGe), based on U.S. Environmental 
The first global medium engine application (a 2.0-liter turbo four  Protection Agency testing standards and has an approximately 72% 
cylinder engine) was launched in the Alfa Romeo Giulia in 2016.  reduction in CO compared to the non-hybrid Chrysler Pacifica. 
2
In 2018, a dual overhead camshaft version of the global medium  Power to the wheels is supplied via a 16 kWh battery through 
engine (with cooled exhaust gas recirculation) became available in  the hybrid electric drive system which is comprised of a specially 
the Jeep Cherokee and Jeep Wrangler. To meet increasingly more  adapted new version of the award-winning Pentastar 3.6-liter V-6 
stringent air quality standards, we have employed the use of gasoline  engine and the new eFlite hybrid transmission. This vehicle was 
particulate filters with both global engine families in some EMEA and  introduced in the China market in 2017.
APAC markets.
The Fiat 500e is FCA’s full electric vehicle offering and is available 
FCA has been engaged in the development of new and improved  only in the NAFTA market. It has an all-electric range of 84 miles 
aluminum alloys for engine use. This work has demonstrated an  and achieves 121 MPGe City, 103 MPGe Highway and 112 
aluminum alloy capable of a 50% increase in strength at 300° Celsius  MPGe Combined. Since its introduction in the 2013 model year 
when compared to other currently used aluminum alloys. While still  approximately 25,000 units have been sold.
in very early development, this type of alloy strength behavior has 
At FCA’s Capital Markets Day held on June 1, 2018, FCA revealed 
the potential to provide increased design flexibility for cylinder heads 
our 2018-2022 business plan, which presented our expectation to 
and cylinder blocks and help to enable increased engine efficiency.
continue reducing CO emissions. The plan anticipates that we will 
2
offer 12 electrified propulsion systems (battery electric, plug-in hybrid 
electric, full hybrid and mild hybrid) in global architectures spanning 
the full range of vehicle segments. The plan also anticipates that 
by 2022, 30 nameplates will feature one or more of these systems. 
Specific applications will align with each of FCA’s brand attributes.
69