04_PRODUCTS AND CUSTOMERS_EFFICIENT POWERTRAINS AND TECHNOLOGIES
    
Included in FCA’s electrification roll-out is the Jeep Renegade Plug-in  a split input configuration and incorporates two electric motors, both 
Hybrid Electric Vehicle (PHEV) that has been scheduled for market  capable of driving in full electric mode. The lubrication and cooling 
launch in early 2020. The Jeep Renegade PHEV will be produced at  system makes use of two pumps, one electrically operated and one 
the Melfi plant (Italy). Leveraging the already installed vehicle platform  mechanically driven. The FCA team expects future hybrid vehicle 
and PHEV elements that underpin Jeep Renegade, the European  portfolio growth with the eFlite transmission and similar electrified 
Jeep Compass also will be produced at the Melfi plant. Both  propulsion systems.
vehicles were presented at the 2019 Geneva International Motor 
Show. Applying the same flexible platform and PHEV technology, 
activities will also commence to prepare the Pomigliano plant (Italy)  ALTERNATIVE FUELS
to produce an Alfa Romeo Compact Utility Vehicle (CUV). A Fiat 
Panda Mild Hybrid Vehicle (MHV) will also be launched in Pomigliano.  
FCA’s vehicle emission reduction strategy includes the use of 
FCA also announced the installation of a full Battery Electric Vehicle 
alternative fuels, from natural gas to biofuels, offering technologies 
(BEV) platform applied on the new Fiat 500, capable of scaling 
that are aligned with the fuels available in various markets, and 
to other applications worldwide. The new Fiat 500 BEV will be 
capable of reducing emission levels.
manufactured at the FCA Mirafiori plant (Italy).
In February 2019, FCA announced plans to invest a total of $4.5  Natural Gas
billion in five of our existing U.S. plants, and to work on building 
FCA is among the EU-market leaders in compressed natural gas 
a new assembly plant in the city of Detroit. This action would 
(CNG) propulsion. Since 1997, the Group has sold approximately 
increase capacity to meet growing demand for our Jeep and Ram 
760,000 natural gas-powered cars and commercial vehicles. 
brands, including production of two new Jeep-branded white space 
Natural gas is one of the most economical fuels available and 
vehicles, as well as electrified models. The proposed projects would 
a viable alternative to traditional fuels. It produces a low level of 
create nearly 6,500 new jobs.
regulated emissions and studies have shown it generates 23% less 
CO emissions compared with gasoline. In addition, natural gas 
Transmissions and Driveline 2
has the potential to become a renewable fuel source in the form of 
Our transmission portfolio includes manual transmissions, dual dry  biomethane.
clutch transmissions and automatic transmissions.
Biomethane: a Renewable Fuel Source
Our automatic transmission portfolio includes 8- and 9-speed 
units developed in an effort to provide our customers with  Biomethane, which is produced by upgrading biogas, has the 
improved efficiency, performance and drive comfort. Long travel  same properties and uses as fossil natural gas. Biogas is derived 
damper and pendulum damper technologies are used to allow  from organic materials such as manure, crop residues and organic 
the engine to operate at a lower speed and higher torque. In this  municipal waste. A natural gas vehicle can also run on biomethane 
area the engine is more efficient at converting the fuel energy to  and, on a well-to-wheel basis, produces roughly the same level of 
mechanical energy. CO emissions as an electric-powered vehicle running on electricity 
2
generated from renewable fuel.
Other improvements are used to reduce the power consumption 
of the transmission. The second generation TorqueFlite 8-speed  FCA is engaged in several projects to promote biomethane as a 
improves  transmission  efficiency  via  improved  line  pressure  sustainable solution for transportation. Among these initiatives, 
control and reduced clutch drag. The addition of transmission  a Fiat Panda Natural Power vehicle was delivered in 2017 to the 
oil heaters allows for the transmission to quickly warm up to  CAP Group, the utility company that manages water works, sewage 
operating temperatures and improve transmission efficiency. FCA  and treatment facilities in metropolitan Milan (Italy). Since then, the 
is investigating many other technologies to increase transmission  Fiat Panda Natural Power has recorded thousands of kilometers 
system efficiency such as selectable one-way clutches and reduced  fueled by the biomethane made by the CAP Group from sewage 
oil viscosity. sludge and waste water. In 2018, the project was included within the 
“Zerosprechi” campaign and presented to the Italian Parliament as a 
In support of global fuel consumption and CO requirements, FCA has 
2 circular economy best practice.
developed our first dedicated hybrid transmission, the eFlite, used 
in the Chrysler Pacifica Hybrid. The new eFlite hybrid transmission 
architecture is an electrically variable front wheel drive transaxle with 
70