04_PRODUCTS AND CUSTOMERS_EFFICIENT POWERTRAINS AND TECHNOLOGIES
    
Biofuels From the earliest development stage, the aerodynamic performance 
of every vehicle profile is measured, optimized, tested and certified in 
In Europe, all engines sold are compatible with blends of up to 10% 
the world-class, full-scale, aerodynamic wind tunnels of the Group.
bioethanol with gasoline (E10), and up to 7% biodiesel with diesel 
(B7). In Brazil, FCA has a full range of Flexfuel vehicles that run on  The 2019 Ram 1500 achieves a 0.357 drag coefficient. The vehicle’s 
varying blends of gasoline and bioethanol. Brazil has an extensive  aerodynamic performance contributes to its fuel efficiency and 
bioethanol distribution network, supported by long-standing  features exclusive active aerodynamics including grille shutters, air 
government policies and readily available raw materials. In 2018,  dam and air suspension.
more than 374,000 FCA Flexfuel vehicles were registered in Brazil, 
accounting for approximately 86% of vehicles licensed by the Group.  Weight Reduction
FCA also offers vehicles capable of running on gasoline blends 
FCA aims to design and produce lighter, more fuel-efficient vehicles 
containing up to 85% ethanol (E85 flexible fuel) or biodiesel blends 
that also meet the expectations of our customers. This includes 
of up to 20% (B20) in the NAFTA region.
adopting a number of weight reduction solutions that help manage 
vehicle energy demand and improve fuel economy. For example, 
the 2019 Ram 1500 achieved a total weight reduction of more than 
EFFICIENCY SOLUTIONS
100 kg compared to the outgoing model, by using high-strength 
steels, composites and aluminum. The frame is made from 98% 
FCA  augments  our  powertrain  innovations  by  integrating 
high-strength steel and notable weight reductions were made by 
technologies that optimize energy demand of our vehicles. These 
switching to aluminum in the tailgate, engine mounts and other 
include improving aerodynamics, reducing weight, minimizing tire  
chassis elements.
rolling resistance and brake drag, offering engine stop-start systems 
and using thermal control technologies.
Minimizing Tire Rolling Resistance
The wider use of smart technologies, which provide dynamic 
FCA uses a variety of solutions to reduce rolling resistance, which 
management of the vehicle’s powertrain systems, has contributed 
contributes directly to improvements in fuel efficiency and CO 
to an improved balance between performance and fuel economy.  2
emissions. Low rolling resistance tires, for example, are offered on 
These technologies include smart charging, optimized engine 
selected FCA models globally.
cooling systems and cylinder deactivation. The value of thermal 
management, or using available “waste” thermal energy, is being 
leveraged in multiple products. This approach allows vehicle systems  EMISSIONS AND FUEL ECONOMY
to operate at a higher efficiency by tailoring individual components to 
run at more optimal temperatures. The Group believes that there is 
FCA addresses the fuel economy and CO emissions of our vehicles 
2
still significant potential to reduce the fuel consumption and emission 
at the start of the product development process by focusing on:
levels of these engines through technological advancements.
• powertrain technologies (e.g., engines, transmissions, hybrid and 
Improved Aerodynamics electric propulsion)
• vehicle energy demand (e.g., aerodynamics, weight, tire performance).
Fuel economy can be improved by optimizing vehicle aerodynamic 
performance. FCA strives to reduce the aerodynamic drag of our  FCA vehicles must comply with comprehensive local, regional and 
vehicles, and also uses active aerodynamic technologies that  national laws and regulations with respect to vehicle emissions and 
are automatically activated under certain conditions to improve  fuel economy. The Group develops technologies that respond to 
aerodynamic drag and reduce fuel consumption and CO emissions.  these regulatory requirements, while also addressing vastly different 
2
Depending on the vehicle, these active technologies may include  consumer preferences and demands around the world. In support 
active grille shutters, active aero front splitters, and air suspension. of this, the Vehicle Safety and Regulatory Compliance organization in 
the four regions where FCA operates report to the Company’s Chief 
Technical Compliance Officer.
“
The wider use of smart technologies, which  
provide dynamic management of the vehicle’s 
powertrain systems, has contributed  
to an improved balance between performance 
and fuel economy.”
71