04_PRODUCTS AND CUSTOMERS_EFFICIENT POWERTRAINS AND TECHNOLOGIES
    
We pursue compliance with fuel economy and greenhouse gas  APAC
regulations in the markets where we operate through the most 
China is leading the rapid change in this region. The Chinese 
cost effective combination of developing, manufacturing and selling 
government has stated intentions to become the global leader in 
vehicles with better fuel economy and lower emissions, purchasing 
electrification in the next decade. The regulatory policies include 
compliance credits and paying regulatory penalties. The cost of each 
credit multipliers and incentives for new energy vehicles which are 
of these components of our strategy has increased and is expected 
defined as battery electric, plug-in hybrid, or fuel cell vehicles.
to continue to increase in the future. As the costs of each of these 
components, particularly the relative costs of each component,  Some large cities provide consumers with license plate incentives 
changes, we intend to adjust our strategies in an effort to maintain  for new energy vehicles. Given these incentives can be as high as 
the most cost effective means of complying with the regulations. €11,000 per vehicle, we believe they will be successful in driving the 
market toward electrification.
The 2018-2022 business plan presented our expectation to continue 
reducing CO emissions through a collection of technologies that will  From a consumer perspective, China has the highest number of first 
2
vary by market, and align with the vehicle mix, consumer needs and  time car buyers in the world. Since much of the vehicle consumer 
regulatory framework. demographic resides in urban areas, access to public charging 
is expected to be a critical element to achieving China’s electrified 
The regulatory environment outlook across our four major regions 
objectives.
shows continued consistent CO reductions, ranging from 25-30% 
2
between 2018 and 2024. This anticipated regulatory stringency  FCA’s plan is, by 2022, for 15% of the overall fleet (including 
balanced  with  customer  preferences  guides  research  and  commercial vehicles) to use high voltage electrification, with the 
development for future products and will be highlighted below by  highest penetration of full battery electric of any region, 20% of the 
region and key product segment. fleet to be equipped with a hybrid system and 65% of the fleet to 
retain conventional internal combustion engines.
NAFTA
In contrast to China, India continues to be a very cost sensitive market 
The U.S. policy is complex with three separate CO regulations, but it  with a developing infrastructure. As a result, increased regulatory 
2
also contains a flexible array of new technology incentives to encourage  requirements are expected to be met through application of shared 
industry movement toward an electrified future. For instance, U.S.  conventional technologies with limited dependence on electrification.
regulation includes a tax credit to consumers of up to $7,500 to jump 
start demand, which is required given relatively low fuel prices and  EMEA
increasing consumer preference for SUVs and trucks in the market.
Europe represents the most challenging combination of regulatory 
American consumers tend to have long commutes and ready access to  stringency and consumer price sensitivity. The EU is driving a step 
charging capability at home. FCA plans, by 2022, for 20% of our overall  function reduction in CO  in 2020, and metropolitan areas are 
2
fleet (including commercial vehicles) to be high voltage, with a focus  implementing low emission zones in an attempt to improve air quality 
on plug-in systems, 15% of the fleet to be equipped with mild hybrid  in city centers. Conventional internal combustion engine applications 
systems and 65% to retain conventional internal combustion engines. will likely be restricted, especially with aging vehicles. The CO 
2
financial penalty structure is very significant.
LATAM
Many consumers in Europe need reduced cost of vehicle ownership 
With its ability to grow sugar cane in high volume, Brazil is able to  given high fuel prices and pressure on disposable income. As the 
address CO reduction with a different approach. Today about 30% of  demand for diesels continues to decrease, FCA intends to use 
2
vehicle fuel usage in Brazil consists of sugar cane produced ethanol.  mild hybrids as a replacement. The region will need to address 
Sugar cane ethanol is 80% renewable from “well” (or field) to wheels  the development of charging infrastructure so that zero emission 
and provides approximately 12.5% CO reduction on an equivalent  vehicles are more convenient for consumers.
2
30/70 fuel mix E100/E22 basis. The Brazilian government recently 
FCA’s plan is, by 2022, for 20% of the overall fleet (including 
launched a plan (RenovaBio) to improve quality and productiveness 
commercial vehicles) to use high voltage electrification, 40% of the 
of ethanol, targeting an increase of share on Ethanol E100 in the fuel 
fleet to be equipped with a mild hybrid system and 40% to retain 
matrix from the current 30% to 40% in 2022 and to 55% in 2030. In 
conventional internal combustion engines.
addition, the Brazilian government and FCA are working very closely 
on research and development opportunities to further reduce CO 
2
emissions through improvements to ethanol-fueled engines.
Brazilian consumers already widely use ethanol fuel, readily available 
in the current retail fuel market. FCA believes that Brazilian fleet CO 
2
reduction targets will be met through 2025 with increased usage and 
efficiency of its ethanol based engines and without any high voltage 
electrification.
72