04_PRODUCTS AND CUSTOMERS_EFFICIENT POWERTRAINS AND TECHNOLOGIES
    
Other Markets With respect to fuel economy, in China Phase IV of the Corporate 
Average Fuel Consumption (or CAFC) is currently in place and 
In countries in the APAC and LATAM regions, including those without  provides an industry target of 5.0 liters per 100 kilometers by 2020. 
specific regulations governing CO emissions or fuel consumption,  Each OEM must meet a specific fleet average fuel consumption 
2
FCA offers vehicle technology designed to reduce both. target related to vehicle weight. The phase-in of this fleet-average 
requirement began in 2016, with increasing stringency each year 
Brazil
through 2020. Additional provisions for Phase IV include meeting 
In July 2018, the first regulations related to Rota 2030 were enacted  a quota for New Energy Vehicles (NEVs) beginning in 2019. NEVs 
in Brazil, the major market in the LATAM region. Rota 2030 is a long- consist of plug-in electric hybrids, battery electric vehicles, and 
term program (three cycles of five years each) which includes key  fuel cell vehicles. No off-cycle credit flexibilities exist in the China 
principles related to energy efficiency for all vehicles sold in Brazil.  regulation, although credit multipliers are granted for NEVs.
Key Rota 2030 regulations were approved by the Brazilian Congress 
A draft version of the Phase V rule has been distributed by the 
and sanctioned by the Brazilian President in December 2018 as well 
Chinese government with increasing stringency reaching a target of 
as ordinary regulations to address certain minimum requirements 
4.0 liters per 100 kilometers by 2025.
and other metrics.
In September 2017, China’s Ministry of Industry and Information 
The regulation for the next phase of Energy Efficiency (CO /fuel 
2 Technology released administrative rules regarding CAFC and NEV 
efficiency) beginning in 2022 incorporates three fleets split into 
credits that became effective in April 2018.
passenger, large SUV and light commercial vehicle categories. 
The Group aims to implement fuel efficient technical solutions 
Among other things, the rule rewards the improvement of sugar cane 
such as engine stop-start (ESS). The 2018 Jeep Wrangler and 
ethanol combustion efficiency and also recognizes and provides 
locally-produced Jeep Renegade, Jeep Compass and Jeep Grand 
credit flexibilities for technologies that provide benefits in conditions 
Commander have ESS as a standard configuration. In addition 
that are not seen on the standardized government test cycles.
to ESS, the new Jeep Wrangler offers the 2.0-liter global medium 
In Brazil, gasoline contains 22% ethanol, diesel contains 8% 
engine with turbocharger. It delivers a 2.6 liters per 100 km fuel 
biodiesel and pure ethanol (E100) accounts for about 30% of sales 
savings compared to the previous model with the 3.0-liter Pentastar 
by volume. More than 374,000 Flexfuel vehicles were registered in 
engine. The Chrysler Pacifica Hybrid was launched in China in April 
2018, accounting for approximately 86% of the vehicles licensed 
2018, contributing to the fuel efficient technologies FCA offers in the 
by the Group in this market. FCA participates in the government’s 
region.
vehicle fuel consumption monitoring program (PBEV - Brazilian 
Labeling Program Vehicle).
China
China 5 standards, which mirror Euro 5 standards, are currently in 
place in China nationwide. China 6 standards were released in 2016 
and will be required nationwide beginning in July 2020 with China 
6a thresholds and in July 2023 with China 6b thresholds. China 
6a and 6b have more stringent tailpipe emissions thresholds than 
Euro 6 and also add European Union (EU) real driving emissions 
and U.S. onboard diagnostics, onboard refueling vapor recovery and 
evaporative emission control system requirements. Some regions 
within China will implement China 6b prior to July 2023, such as 
Beijing (beginning in early 2020) and Tianjin, Shanghai, Guangzhou 
and Shenzhen (beginning in July 2019) with more regions expected 
to follow. FCA’s entire China fleet has been developed with the intent 
to meet China 6 standards.
75