04_PRODUCTS AND CUSTOMERS_EFFICIENT POWERTRAINS AND TECHNOLOGIES
    
Regulatory Actions We have also received inquiries from other regulatory authorities 
in a number of jurisdictions as they examine the on-road tailpipe 
On January 10, 2019, we announced that FCA US reached final  emissions of several automakers’ vehicles and, when jurisdictionally 
settlements on civil, environmental and consumer claims with the  appropriate, we continue to cooperate with these governmental 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), U.S. Department of  agencies and authorities.
Justice, the California Air Resources Board, the State of California, 
In Europe, we have been working with the Italian Ministry of Transport 
49 other States and U.S. Customs and Border Protection, for 
(MIT) and the Dutch Vehicle Regulator (RDW), the authorities that 
which we have accrued €748 million, of which approximately €350 
certified FCA diesel vehicles for sale in the European Union, and the 
million will be paid in civil penalties to resolve differences over diesel 
UK Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency (DVSA). We also initially 
emissions requirements. We also announced that FCA US had 
responded to inquiries from the German authority, the Kraftfahrt-
reached settlements in connection with a putative class action on 
Bundesamt (KBA), regarding emissions test results for our vehicles, 
behalf of consumers in connection with which FCA US agreed to pay 
and we discussed the KBA reported test results, our emission 
an average of $2,800 per vehicle for each eligible customer affected 
control calibrations and the features of the vehicles in question. 
by the recall.
After these initial discussions, the MIT, which has sole authority for 
The settlements do not change the Company’s position that it did  regulatory compliance of the vehicles it has certified, asserted its 
not engage in any deliberate scheme to install defeat devices to  exclusive jurisdiction over the matters raised by the KBA, tested 
cheat emissions tests. Further, the consent decree and settlement  the vehicles, determined that the vehicles complied with applicable 
agreements contain no finding or admission with regard to any  European regulations and informed the KBA of its determination. 
alleged violations of vehicle emissions rules. Thereafter, mediations have been held under European Commission 
(EC) rules, between MIT and the German Ministry of Transport and 
We remain subject to diesel emissions-related investigations by the 
Digital Infrastructure (BMVI), which oversees the KBA, in an effort 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. Department 
to resolve their differences. The mediation was concluded with 
of Justice, Criminal Division. In addition, we remain subject to a 
no action being taken with respect to FCA. In May 2017, the EC 
number of related private lawsuits and the potential for additional 
announced its intention to open an infringement procedure against 
claims by consumers who choose not to participate in the class 
Italy regarding Italy’s alleged failure to respond to EC’s concerns 
action settlement.
regarding certain FCA emission control calibrations. The MIT has 
responded to the EC’s allegations by confirming that the vehicles’ 
approval process was correctly performed.
In addition, at the request of the French Consumer Protection 
Agency, the Juge d’Instruction du Tribunal de Grande Instance 
of Paris is investigating diesel vehicles of a number of automakers 
including FCA, regarding whether the sale of those vehicles violated 
French consumer protection laws. In December 2018, the Korean 
Ministry of Environment announced its determination that 2,428 
FCA vehicles imported in Korea during 2015, 2016 and 2017 were 
not emissions compliant and that the vehicles with a subsequent 
update of the emission control calibrations voluntarily performed by 
FCA, although compliant, would have required re-homologation of 
the vehicles concerned.
76