04_PRODUCTS AND CUSTOMERS_APPLICATIONS OF THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
    
MATERIALS AND SUBSTANCES  • a  recently  completed  project  with  the  Canadian  National 
Research Council, to optimize nonwoven eco-substrates for 
FCA supports using recycled and renewable materials in our new  interior trim applications and the fabrication of components on 
products. The amount of renewable or recycled content included  an industrial scale. The project successfully identified several bio-
in our vehicles varies depending on performance requirements and  reinforcements capable of being used in door panel applications, 
the market availability of such materials. For some types of materials  as well as practical uses for recycled carbon fibers in similar 
in our vehicles (e.g., metal), the percentage of recycled content  applications.
is significant, less so for other materials such as polymers and 
elastomers, though efforts are in place to increase the percentages.
Substances of Concern
Material innovation and development is conducted by FCA’s Group 
Material Labs (GML) in Europe and the Materials Engineering 
FCA works to eliminate or reduce the use of Substances of 
organization in the U.S. The GML also monitors changes in legislation 
Concern (SoC) that may impact human health or the environment.
and assesses potential implications on the Group’s products and 
We use the International Material Data System (IMDS) to track 
processes. In 2018, the Materials Engineering organization approved 
the composition of individual materials and components in 
sustainable materials for use in FCA vehicles. These materials contain 
our vehicles. Data from IMDS is then fed into FCA internal 
recycled or bio/renewable content, or low emissions polymers. The 
management systems, which are used to monitor the content of 
new applications included recycled content on the Jeep Cherokee 
all vehicles and identify the presence of SoCs. These systems are 
engine cover and air cleaner housings, and grades of synthetic suede 
crucial for tracking vehicle recyclability and recoverability, as well as 
for several vehicles.
monitoring SoCs included on the Global Automotive Declarable 
FCA has established a closed-loop process to return aluminum and 
Substance List (GADSL).
steel scraps to selected suppliers in Europe, and recycle them back into 
our manufacturing processes. Up to 25% of aluminum casting parts  FCA’s internal standard of restricted and prohibited SoCs is made 
used in some powertrain applications in Italy are secondary alloys. We  available to suppliers worldwide, which are required to adhere to 
also promote the use of recycled plastics in our design requirements.  IMDS and SoC disclosure obligations. It provides uniform global 
For example, we manufacture gasoline tanks internally that are up to  requirements, regardless of where the products are ultimately 
39% recycled plastic by weight for certain European applications. sold or marketed, that minimize market-specific uncertainty or 
interpretation while increasing transparency and clarity.
FCA participates in a variety of collaborative projects related to 
materials research, including: FCA has developed vehicle “indoor air” quality (VIAQ) evaluation 
standards which are part of our material approval process for 
• the SPIDER project, that aims to produce safe and environmentally 
interior materials. That approval process includes odor, Volatile 
friendly lithium-ion batteries by reducing or substituting critical 
Organic Compound (VOC), and other testing on in-cabin air and 
raw materials like cobalt and graphite with other more sustainable 
components to reduce detectable interior odors as well as to 
metals such as nickel, titanium and silicon.
improve customer satisfaction.
• the  European  Union’s  CarE-Service  project,  that  aims  to 
demonstrate  innovative  Circular  Economy  business  models  FCA’s attention focuses on substances identified in globally 
based on advanced mobility services. FCA’s activities are mainly  regulated Substances of Concern restrictions like the REACH(1) 
focused on re-use, remanufacturing and recycling end-of-life  regulation and heavy metal ban.(2) This level of awareness and 
batteries from hybrid and electric vehicles. commitment to compliance is also critical to FCA suppliers 
• the REINVENT project, with the objective of producing polyols  with whom we collaborate closely in identifying technically and 
from renewable sources and bio materials from forest residue. environmentally sustainable substitutes for substances that will be 
• a cooperative research project with FCA, Oak Ridge National  restricted in the near future.
Laboratory (U.S.) and a casting supplier, which created a new 
aluminum alloy for use in engine components. This alloy maintains 
its strength in heat well beyond components in current use, and 
can be cast and machined using existing technologies.
(1) European Regulation 1907/2006 of December 18, 2006 concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH).
(2) Commission Directive 2017/2096/EU of November 15, 2017 amending Annex II to directive 2000/53/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on End-of-Life-Vehicles.
79