04_PRODUCTS AND CUSTOMERS_APPLICATIONS OF THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
    
LIFE CYCLE ASSESSMENT FCA provides recyclability and recoverability information on vehicles 
exported to countries with ELV regulations. The FCA Vehicle Recycling 
Laboratory at the Automotive Research and Development Centre 
FCA uses Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) to evaluate the environmental 
(ARDC) in Canada plays an important role to support vehicle end-of-
impact of materials, components, design and production processes. 
life research and development. The ARDC performs vehicle teardowns 
LCA considers multiple factors, such as energy and other resources 
to satisfy dismantling requirements for ELVs, and provides or helps 
consumed during production; use and recycling; and waste 
confirm existing part information that is used to generate more accurate 
generation, which are measured based on ISO 14040 and ISO 
recyclability and recoverability information.
14044 standards. Critical reviews by a third-party certification 
company verify the compliance of selected LCA studies with these  As our electrified vehicle portfolio continues to grow, FCA explores 
standards. Collaborative LCAs related to materials, processes  solutions for the life cycle management of lithium-ion batteries.  
and automotive components are also conducted within several  We have partnered with a supplier on a program that collects high-voltage  
internationally-funded projects. lithium-ion batteries and finds use for these batteries elsewhere.  
The Electric Vehicle Battery Recycling program is important due to the 
The  results  from  vehicle  LCAs  may  help  contribute  to  the 
significant environmental footprint of these batteries. When batteries 
development of new, more environmentally-friendly products. In 
become available, FCA or a business partner notifies the supplier 
2018, Life Cycle Assessments completed include:
who retrieves and transports them for repurposing in non-automotive 
• Maserati Ghibli 3.0-liter gasoline vs 3.0-liter diesel applications such as personal mobility devices, including motorized 
• Maserati Levante 3.0-liter gasoline vs 3.0-liter diesel wheelchairs. This initiative offers consumers of these goods a lower 
• Fiat Ducato 2.3-liter diesel Euro 6b vs 2.3-liter diesel Euro 5+ cost option for the replacement of their batteries in addition to being 
• Fiat Cronos 1.3-liter Flexfuel vs Fiat Grand Siena 1.4-liter Flexfuel a zero waste-to-landfill solution. Additionally, FCA participates in the 
• Jeep Renegade 1.8-liter Flexfuel vs Jeep Renegade 2.0-liter diesel U.S. Advanced Battery Consortium, a collaborative organization of 
automakers. This work group contains a number of battery-related 
projects, including those focused on recycling lithium-ion batteries to 
VEHICLE END-OF-LIFE   produce new cathode materials, which can reduce cost and increase 
energy density.
MANAGEMENT
Pursuing a responsible approach across the value chain means  REMANUFACTURED PARTS
looking beyond the design, production, delivery and use phases. 
FCA designs our products so that their environmental impact is also 
Dependence on raw materials for parts creates demand on natural 
reduced at the point when the customer discards the vehicle at its 
resources, a demand that FCA strives to reduce by employing 
end-of-life stage.
circular economy principles.
In the U.S., the environmental effects of vehicles at the end-of-life 
To provide a second life for selected parts used in FCA vehicles, the 
stage are reduced using a market-driven recycling infrastructure, 
Company has developed specific product lines of remanufactured 
making automobiles and their components among the most recycled 
parts. These parts support the aftermarket needs of customers, 
consumer products in that country. In other markets, local legislations 
simultaneously reducing the cost of vehicle ownership and decreasing 
regulate end-of-life management activities and responsibilities. In 
the volume of salvageable materials heading to landfills. The FCA 
the European Union, for example, EU Directive 2000/53 and the 
remanufactured product lines include air conditioning compressors, 
Circular Economy package describe required reuse, recycling and 
starters, alternators, brake calipers, electronic control modules, 
recovery activities. FCA participates in the review process of end-of-life 
torque converters, steering and suspensions, as well as engine and 
vehicle (ELV) policies, supporting the development of new standards or 
transmission product categories. The number of product offerings 
regulations, such as vehicle and battery recycling.
continues to grow and represents more than 4,500 part numbers 
In 2018, all Group vehicles sold in Europe were 95% recoverable  globally.
and 85% recyclable by weight, in compliance with the EU’s Reusability, 
Through external specialized providers, FCA certifies the production 
Recyclability, Recoverability Directive.
of remanufactured parts in order to provide a repair solution that 
is equivalent to original equipment parts, and that carry the same 
warranty conditions as new parts.
80