04_PRODUCTS AND CUSTOMERS_CUSTOMER FOCUS
    
VEHICLE SAFETY  consistent implementation of upgrades to our testing equipment and 
methodology. In 2018, more than 2,400 impact and crash tests, 
Delivering safe products to our customers is a fundamental  including full-scale crash tests, were reviewed globally to understand 
and unwavering objective of FCA, and is among the essential  performance to vehicle safety standards for vehicle occupants, as 
responsibilities described in our Code of Conduct. In 2018, FCA  well as pedestrians and cyclists. In addition, more than 850 real 
expanded our communication and enhanced the existing FCA  accidents were reviewed at the Pomigliano Technical Center (Italy).
Ethics Helpline system worldwide to encourage suppliers, dealers 
In 2018, a new facility was dedicated at FCA’s Chelsea Proving 
and other stakeholders to report concerns related to vehicle safety, 
Grounds (U.S.) for further development and testing of autonomous 
emissions or regulatory compliance. FCA employees are required 
vehicle and advanced safety technologies. The facility features a 
under our Code of Conduct to report such issues.
dedicated autonomous highway-speed track, 35-acre safety-feature 
FCA believes that the automotive industry should adopt a systematic  evaluation area and a high-tech command center.
approach to ensure that vehicle safety remains a fundamental 
FCA also actively participates in national and international groups and 
corporate value that protects drivers, passengers, the environment, 
projects focused on areas of occupant and pedestrian safety such 
and our communities, in a socially responsible and sustainable 
as developing new and improved safety standards and automated 
manner. To this end, we launched an internal Vehicle Safety 
driving systems. As an example, the EMEA safety organization is a 
Compliance Program to apply compliance principles to various 
member of IGLAD (Initiative for the Global Harmonization of Accident 
operational functions that are dedicated to the regulatory framework 
Data), a consortium of auto manufacturers that collects and analyzes 
of our industry. For example, under the program, our Code of 
traffic accident data to improve road and vehicle safety. In the U.S., 
Conduct, management communications, and publicity campaigns 
FCA collaborates with other automakers to identify technical issues 
are aligned to reinforce our vehicle safety culture at all levels of the 
and conduct research related to vehicle safety through the U.S. 
organization. Similarly, the program applies continuous improvement 
Council for Automotive Research, among others.
methodology to ensure that potential vehicle safety risks are 
identified, investigated, analyzed, and incorporated into specific 
initiatives and procedures within the Vehicle Safety Regulatory 
Safety Technology and Ratings
Compliance group.
FCA is responding to consumer expectations of high tech solutions 
Our suppliers have access to a web-based training program 
in their vehicles by devoting significant resources to research and 
that instructs them on FCA’s expectations and supplier-specific 
develop technologies that enable drivers and passengers to safely 
requirements of the U.S. Motor Vehicle Safety Act and regulations of 
interact with their car and with the world around them. By providing 
the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). This 
real-time availability of services and information, FCA is contributing to 
training was launched by FCA in 2017 and incorporated feedback 
improve safety and the mobility experience. For example, Traffic Sign 
from NHTSA. In 2018, collaboration began with the Automotive 
Recognition uses digital camera technology and navigation-system 
Industry Action Group and other automakers to make this training 
data to monitor the roadway for speed limits and relays the information 
standardized and available throughout the automotive industry.
to the driver.
From a global perspective, the Vehicle Safety and Regulatory 
FCA offers active and passive features for diverse drivers and vehicle 
Compliance organizations in the four regions where FCA operates 
segments, along with tertiary safety elements. The intent of active 
collectively report to the Company’s Chief Technical Compliance 
safety systems is to help drivers avoid crashes by assisting them to 
Officer. This alignment further supports sharing information to 
control their vehicles or alert them to potentially hazardous situations. 
harmonize guidelines and processes where possible, given the 
These systems monitor surroundings, the status of the vehicle, driver 
regulatory environment.
behavior and include semi-automated technologies that provide 
assistance to drivers in certain instances, with the driver retaining 
Safety Research control as needed.
Passive safety systems are designed to help mitigate the effects of 
Our advanced engineering organizations around the world apply 
a crash. These include occupant restraint technology and the use 
virtual reality methods and innovative technological solutions for 
of more advanced materials that enable us to improve crash energy 
virtual and physical tests. By analyzing the performance of vehicle 
management.
safety systems in real-world collisions, we are able to develop future 
active and passive safety systems. The engineers develop and  In the area of tertiary safety, the Group provides emergency rescue 
assess effective safety systems and concentrate on various aspects  sheets with information to rescue teams or first responders on special 
including safety levels in front, rear and side collisions for vehicles  design elements and the position of components to be considered 
from different segments; protection of vulnerable road users; and  when assisting the occupants of vehicles involved in an accident.
integration of active and passive safety systems. These efforts 
not only strive to help improve vehicle safety but also result in the 
82