04_PRODUCTS AND CUSTOMERS_CUSTOMER FOCUS
    
As we continue efforts to deliver advancements in safety technologies,  We continue to investigate and implement ways to further improve 
ratings from independent agencies help validate our progress.  customer engagement and experience related to safety recalls 
Independent agencies rate the comparative safety of vehicles across  through both regional communication channels and our Customer 
the industry in different regions. While the specific criteria vary, these  Contact Centers (CCC). For example, FCA took a significant 
ratings generally evaluate the level of safety provided for occupants  step in recall customer outreach in 2018 by launching an all-new 
during a crash as well as a vehicle’s ability to avoid a crash through  customer relationship management system for our CCC specialists. 
the use of technology. Over the years, FCA vehicles have earned top  The planning, process and actual contacts for all recall outreach, 
ratings based on performance during assessments. For example, the  including phone, postal mail and digital, is now managed by the 
Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) named the 2019 Chrysler  Customer Care team. Volume in 2018 exceeded 27 million outreach 
Pacifica a Top Safety Pick and the Fiat 500X was awarded the Latin  attempts.
NCAP 5-Star rating.
In addition, the Check To Protect public awareness campaign was 
Independent rating agencies, such as Euro NCAP and IIHS, have  launched by the National Safety Council (NSC) and FCA US to 
required increasingly stringent protocols to achieve five-star safety  raise awareness of the importance of customers checking regularly 
ratings. FCA has taken these protocols into consideration as we  for open recalls. The campaign drives customers to the NHTSA 
develop and test our safety systems. database of all open recalls and urges customers to take action to 
repair vehicles quickly. In 2018, the National Automobile Dealers 
Association also joined with the NSC in support of the Check To 
Regulatory Compliance Protect campaign and to educate and raise awareness about the 
importance of getting recall repairs completed.
When potential vehicle safety issues arise, we promptly investigate 
and take corrective action, including initiating safety recall campaigns 
when appropriate. FCA aims to improve the overall customer 
VEHICLE QUALITY
experience during the safety recall process and increase completion 
rates. We use a set of industry-leading advanced data analytics in 
the U.S. to improve our ability to more rapidly and effectively identify  FCA strives to satisfy our customers by continuing to bring new 
and assess potential safety issues. By quickly identifying potential  technologies and products to market, with improved quality and 
safety issues, we are able to investigate and make determinations  reliability. Customers’ needs and expectations vary from market 
regarding appropriate safety recalls to address safety issues  to market due to differences in driving experiences and local 
promptly and inconvenience fewer customers. In 2018, there were  preferences, which is why our customer-focused approach to quality 
148 recall campaigns involving 14,016,521 initial recall notices for  during vehicle development is key. One measure of this approach 
FCA vehicles worldwide. is reflected in the results of the J.D. Power 2018 U.S. Initial Quality 
Study. The FCA brands included in the study improved initial quality, 
Through the Global Technical Compliance organization, the vehicle 
on average, at a faster rate than the U.S. industry average for the 
safety investigation and safety recall execution process has been 
third consecutive year.
harmonized to enhance coordination across regions and the 
robustness of safety recall campaign remedies for our customers. To measure progress toward improving vehicle quality, FCA has set 
a target of achieving top quartile placement for the vehicle portfolio 
by 2020, based on the relevant competitive benchmark for each 
geographic region. This includes vehicle reliability as measured 
by rate of repair and survey results related to vehicle functionality 
and design. In 2018, the rate of repair in the first 90 days of 
ownership improved on average by approximately 1% globally.  
Things Gone Wrong (TGW) is an internal and external survey process 
that evaluates customer needs and behaviors related to vehicle 
functionality and design issues. In 2018, TGW improved on average 
by approximately 2% in three regions (NAFTA, EMEA and APAC). 
The LATAM region launched a new external survey methodology and 
is not included in the scope.
83