04_PRODUCTS AND CUSTOMERS_CUSTOMER FOCUS
    
Quality Processes Engineering and Quality teams also study how vehicles perform in 
less predictable environments. Reliability test fleet vehicles are driven 
For every FCA vehicle, quality considerations ranging from customer  day and night on public road surfaces, at high and low altitudes 
expectations to functional requirements are analyzed from the  and through blizzard conditions, as well as dry, desert heat and hot, 
earliest stages of design. A cross-functional initiative within FCA  humid locations all over the globe. We conduct extreme weather 
focuses on managing risks and implementing solutions for new  testing at a number of facilities worldwide, including in Sweden, 
vehicles. The program assesses the risk of items, such as new  South Africa and the Middle East, as well as at a cold weather testing 
vehicle features, during the design phase, which is then evaluated  facility in Fairbanks (U.S.).
against existing data and processes to determine if different testing 
In addition to monitoring throughout the product development 
or timing approaches are needed. The program helps identify and 
process, the Connected Customer Fleet (CCF) program allows 
avoid potential issues earlier in the vehicle development process and 
selected customers to participate in an online community to provide 
makes implementing solutions more cost effective.
earlier and more extensive vehicle feedback to FCA than traditional 
At times, differences in customer expectations or regulatory  methods. In 2018, FCA implemented a version of the program to 
requirements within a specific market have an impact on quality  better understand our commercial customers and their duty cycles. 
standards. When this occurs, FCA typically applies the most  Feedback from these customers is being used to change design 
stringent specifications to all markets. These market-based  standards and targets. Programs such as CCF help to rapidly 
differences add complexity and make close cooperation across  identify and resolve potential issues with new models and improve 
regions an essential part of the process. To support global quality  customer satisfaction.
collaboration, the Global Issue Management (GIM) system provides 
a single repository that is available in five languages to help 
expedite issue resolution across functional groups and regions.   CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE
Benefits of the GIM system extend beyond our internal resources 
by providing our supply chain access to view and address supplier-
FCA  understands  that  changing  customer  sentiment  and 
related issues. In 2018, the GIM system moved further up in the 
expectations, along with technology, are impacting how we 
overall vehicle process into the Product Development phase.  
interact with customers. As we aim to build loyalty among existing 
By making this improvement, issues are identified and tracked earlier 
customers and appeal to potential new customers, we also are 
in one system that can be seen by team members in all regions.
focusing on providing convenient communication channels and 
Inside FCA assembly plants, we operate state-of-the-art metrology 
positive experiences. Our dealer network is the primary face-to-
centers - high-tech laboratories with a clean-room environment.  
face connection with customers and FCA has worked with our 
The metrology labs use laser scanners and a complex set of 
network to help them update sales and service processes that 
fixtures that mimic the body shop’s process so that engineers and 
accommodate brand values, local requirements, and different 
technicians can assess and mitigate build parameters to evaluate 
customer needs. Several measures have been implemented over 
risk more proactively. All of these tools are used to find and resolve 
time to improve processes, customer service standards and service 
issues before vehicles are shipped to dealers, and ultimately, to the 
quality for the Group’s dealer network, the vast majority of which is 
end customers. As part of our quality approach, all Group plants 
privately owned. 
have adopted a Quality Management System that is ISO 9001 
Customer experiences are monitored on a market basis through 
certified, and all powertrain plants in Europe are also ISO/TS 16949 
surveys that provide insight into customer advocacy and satisfaction 
certified.
with the dealer network. Results are integrated into dealer processes, 
FCA conducts thousands of reliability, capability and durability tests 
customer contact center management, and training programs. One 
each year at our proving grounds in Chelsea (U.S.) and Balocco 
primary approach used by FCA is an advocacy measurement to 
(Italy). During 2018, a new facility was dedicated at the Chelsea 
track customer satisfaction. This figure represents the percentage 
Proving Grounds to allow for testing of various levels of autonomy 
of customers who are likely to recommend the dealer to a friend or 
and enable the Company to evaluate FCA vehicles using test 
family member based on their sales or service experience. In the 
protocols from third parties, such as the Insurance Institute for 
U.S. and in the EMEA region’s major markets, the sales and service 
Highway Safety (IIHS), U.S. New Car Assessment Program (NCAP) 
advocacy results remained stable in 2018 compared with 2017.
and European New Car Assessment Program (EuroNCAP), plus 
additional electronic brake test simulations.
84