04_PRODUCTS AND CUSTOMERS_CUSTOMER FOCUS
    
As the needs of our customers around the world continue to evolve,  Training content varies by market and changes over time to 
so does the value of personalization and easy access to information.  reflect brand presence, model launches, process improvements, 
FCA provides opportunities for customers to interact with the dealer  customer expectations and advancements in vehicle features. 
network; research products and services; and learn about our  Content included in training developed for sales, after-sales and 
brands through a wide variety of channels, often before an in-person  technical personnel covers an extensive range of topics, such as 
sales or service experience. customer experienced-based processes and skills; product and 
vehicle systems knowledge; and environmental and safety features 
Vehicle shopping solutions in various markets use virtual and 
of the Group’s vehicles. Depending on the topic, dealer personnel 
augmented reality to enable customers to customize and experience 
demonstrate comprehensive knowledge by completing a series of 
vehicle details in real-time, even when they do not have access to 
courses, skills assessments and certifications.
the physical vehicle. Initiatives like the Abarth AR (Augmented 
Reality) and the Jeep Adventure Reality applications for mobile  Developing the network goes beyond providing training and 
devices offer customers a cyber experience to help them configure  communication tools for existing network employees. It also means 
the vehicle and make their purchase decisions. A similar approach  looking forward and supporting additional educational opportunities. 
was launched in 2017 in Turin (Italy) that allows potential customers  Examples of such programs include:
to configure an FCA vehicle through an immersive experience using 
•  Degrees@Work and Degrees@Work Family programs. U.S. 
virtual reality headsets. The solution was made available during 
dealership employees and their families are offered the opportunity 
2018 in other countries at temporary or pop-up stores in highly 
to receive a no-cost, no-debt college degree. The programs 
frequented areas such as shopping malls. In addition, FCA provides 
enable dealerships to attract top talent, improve the skill set of 
customers in selected countries, directly or through partnerships 
existing employees, lessen the burden of paying for college for 
with major providers, the ease and convenience of shopping for a 
families and increase employee retention. By the end of 2018, 
vehicle online. This approach allows customers to take delivery of 
more than 3,300 dealership employees and family members have 
the vehicles at their local dealers, combining online purchasing with 
taken advantage of this opportunity.
human interaction.
•  Mopar  Career  Automotive  Program  (CAP).  This  study  and 
FCA also offers innovative features and solutions to support new and  internship program is offered by a network of schools in the U.S. 
unique market expectations. For example, connected services such  that utilize an FCA-specific curriculum to train high-potential, 
as the Uconnect Skill for Amazon Alexa allows vehicle owners to  entry-level automotive technicians for employment at FCA 
conveniently search for destinations from the comfort of their home,  dealerships. Mopar CAP has created strategic partnerships with 
then send it their vehicle for easy navigation directions. automotive technical colleges primarily in metropolitan areas of 
the U.S. In addition, Mopar CAP LOCAL, which was established 
in 2015, continues to grow the network of schools in the U.S. by 
Dealer Network Development enlisting schools in secondary and rural markets. At the end of 
2018, there were 96 Mopar CAP and CAP LOCAL schools, an 
The dealer network plays a pivotal role in developing relationships 
increase of approximately 8% over 2017, supporting more than 
and building trust with FCA’s customers. To support the role of the 
8,900 active students.
network, FCA develops training programs to enhance sales and 
•  TechPro2 program. This international project is a three-year 
service personnel knowledge and skills. The Group offers targeted 
program for selected students who receive theoretical and practical 
training through live and web-based courses, including online tools 
knowledge from Salesian Vocational Training Center instructors 
such as virtual classrooms, tablet applications and in-dealership 
who have received professional training by FCA employees. The 
mobile tools.
training centers are designed and equipped by FCA and reflect 
the same service standards as the FCA dealer network. Second 
and third-year students gain important hands-on experience 
through internships and apprenticeships. In 2018, more than 650 
students in Italy were enrolled in TechPro2 apprenticeships, with 
41% of them within the FCA dealer network. Around the world, 
more than 5,000 students, including the students in Italy, took 
part in the program and received approximately 4.5 million hours 
of training in seven languages and 60 locations.
6.1+
 Million 
hours of dealer 
network training
85