04_PRODUCTS AND CUSTOMERS_CUSTOMER FOCUS
    
Customer Support FCA Customer Contact Centers manage the entire process, from the 
first contact with the customer until a response is given or a concern 
FCA provides a variety of communication channels for our  is resolved, ensuring resolution in the shortest possible time. They 
customers throughout the ownership experience that offer not only  provide multilingual support with a strong focus on employing native 
product information but also specific support within the markets.  speakers of 28 languages. FCA believes that skilled, knowledgeable 
Examples range from online chatbots to smartphone applications  and motivated agents are essential for a high level of customer 
that allow users to schedule service appointments and receive  satisfaction. For this reason, in 2018 the Group offered nearly 99,000 
recall information. These solutions provide convenient access to  hours of agent training on new products, behaviors and processes, 
information and improved customer service. as well as systems and new procedures.
To strengthen connections with our customers and address  FCA took a significant step in recall customer outreach in the U.S. in 
customer complaints, FCA’s social media teams monitor digital  2018 by launching an all-new Customer Relationship Management 
media channels, such as Facebook, Twitter and automotive blogs.  system for our CCC specialists. The planning, process and actual 
Owner sites are available within most markets to provide our  contacts for all recall outreach, including phone, postal mail and 
customers with information about vehicle maintenance and services;  digital, is now managed by the Customer Care team.
accessories and merchandise; and vehicle recalls.
FCA also regularly engages with customers to provide information 
In addition to websites, smartphone applications and digital media  regarding the proper use of our products and services; potential 
channels, FCA has dedicated customer contact organizations in  risks or hazards; safety and usage instructions; disposal of the 
all regions to ensure strong and global management of customer  vehicles; and warnings. This information is provided through a variety 
contact activities worldwide. Customer Contact Centers (CCC),  of methods including owner and maintenance manuals; information 
together  with  dealers,  are  among  the  primary  channels  of  labels and product advertising; the dealer and service network; and 
communication between customers and the Company. There are 26  Customer Contact Centers, among others. With our global focus, 
CCCs worldwide, with approximately 1,500 agents and supervisors  the Group sells our products and services to consumers in more 
who handled approximately 28 million customer contacts in 2018,  than 135 countries worldwide, and is subject to numerous laws and 
offering a variety of services including information, complaint  regulations governing product information.
management and, in some locations, roadside assistance.
NAFTA LATAM
845Personnel 3Languages   133 Personnel 2Languages  
spoken spoken
Chatham, Ontario Fort Myers, Florida Valencia, Venezuela
Windsor, Ontario Irving, Texas Belo Horizonte, Brazil
Indianapolis, Indiana Mexico City, Mexico Cordoba, Argentina
Center Line, Michigan San Juan, Puerto Rico
Farmington, Michigan
EMEA APAC
449 Personnel 25Languages   45Personnel 7Languages  
spoken spoken
Moscow, Russia Istanbul, Turkey Shanghai, China 
Budapest, Hungary  Cairo, Egypt Seoul, South Korea
Prague, Czech Republic Dubai, U. A. Emirates Tokyo, Japan
Kragujevac, Serbia Johannesburg, South Africa Pune, India 
Arese, Italy Brisbane, Australia
86