05_PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY CHAIN_SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT
    
SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT
The selection of suppliers with proven capabilities  FCA’s operations impact local economies and, whenever possible, 
in quality management, market understanding, and  we utilize local suppliers near major locations of operation. This 
readiness to innovate is critical in distinguishing  generates direct and indirect income and employment opportunities 
in the communities where the business is located, in both developed 
our  products  from  those  of  the  competition.  
and emerging economies, while minimizing transport-related 
By working with our suppliers to create responsible 
environmental impacts. Local suppliers are those with manufacturing 
procurement practices, we can limit exposure to 
operations that supply an FCA plant located in the same country. 
unexpected events and supply disruption, while 
For example, in recent years more than 75% of our spending at our 
building long-term core competence that can drive  plants in Brazil has originated from in-country suppliers.
sustainable growth over time.
FCA  Purchasing,  the  organization  responsible  for  supplier 
management, sets global purchasing strategies and oversees the 
integration of processes worldwide. This organization also works 
with automotive peers and non-automotive counterparts to integrate  SUPPLIER TRAINING  
key environmental, social, and governance considerations into 
global purchasing decisions. Our buying teams work with suppliers  AND COLLABORATION
and colleagues from many internal functional areas to develop and 
execute sourcing strategies as well as support the ongoing selection, 
FCA’s communication with our suppliers is based on the trust and 
management and development of our supply base.
transparency outlined in our Purchasing Foundational Principles. 
FCA’s supplier relationships are driven by our Foundational Principles  Through a variety of channels, we strive to promote innovation, 
that provide the framework we use internally and in working with our  quality products, efficiency, best practice sharing and sustainability 
suppliers. Focused training events take place across FCA’s regions  concepts. We engage with our suppliers through, among other 
to promote awareness and observance of these Principles, and it is  methods, Technology Days, industry and supply chain organizations 
our goal that they be reflected in all supplier relationships: and events, extensive training, and one-on-one dialogue. 
1. Integrity - Trust and be trustworthy
2. Mutual Transparency - Share expectations and information
3. Proactive Collaboration - Work together effectively and efficiently
4. Personal Accountability - Take ownership and accept responsibility
5. Empathy & Advocacy - Respect and support each other
6. Sense of Urgency - Act quickly and decisively
7. Continuous Improvement - Share best practices
74
8. Long-Term Mindset - Make decisions that foster sustainable 
relationships.
Technology Days 
Our suppliers include both direct material suppliers that produce 
with suppliers
the parts and components that make up our vehicles, as well as 
indirect suppliers, who provide the goods and services needed to 
run our operations. We have a global network of more than 2,400  In 2018, FCA and our suppliers participated in 74 Technology Day 
suppliers, ranging in size from small operations with few employees  events. These events encourage collaboration with suppliers on 
up to very large companies, which supply us with everything  innovative solutions for features, efficiencies and quality, and allow 
from basic materials to state-of-the-art componentry. Our supply  suppliers to share some of their latest technological developments 
base is concentrated, with 150 strategic suppliers accounting  and concepts for the future.
for approximately 60% of direct material purchases by value. 
Supporting our efforts to engage sub-tier suppliers, FCA also 
The Group classifies suppliers as being strategic through a formal 
hosts Technology Open House events which allow Tier 2 or Tier 
process based on the following criteria: allocated spending amount; 
3 suppliers to present commodities, technologies or services to 
production and spare parts capacity; technical and commercially-
specifically-defined FCA audiences they might not otherwise reach. 
viable alternatives; and the value of Group procurement orders as a 
In 2018, 24 Technology Open House events were held.
percentage of the supplier’s annual turnover.
95