05_PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY CHAIN_SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT
    
Another aspect of supplier engagement focuses on fostering  Supplier WCM
innovation to improve products, processes and content, often 
leading to sustainable solutions such as the use of recycled raw  FCA  Purchasing,  with  the  support  of  the  World  Class 
materials or weight reduction. The Value Optimization SUPER  Manufacturing Academy and FCA plant WCM specialists, has 
Program  encourages  a  proactive  approach  with  suppliers.  continued providing WCM methodology and tools to our suppliers. 
Economic benefits are shared when innovative manufacturing  WCM support includes plant shop floor assessments for new 
technologies and leaner component designs are implemented. launch suppliers and focused improvement activities for those 
supporting current production. To maximize the effectiveness of 
FCA also encourages dialogue with the supply base by working 
the program, suppliers and commodities are prioritized based 
closely with many industry and supplier organizations. One such 
on their impact on FCA plants, purchasing strategy, and the 
group is the Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG), which the 
supplier’s current performance. Particular emphasis is placed on 
Company helped found in 1982. AIAG is a cooperative forum 
supplier plants involved in upcoming product launches.
for the auto industry focused on improving business processes 
and practices involving trading partners and peers throughout  The increasingly global approach to expanding the World Class 
the supply chain. In addition to a leadership role on the Board of  Supplier program offers a range of engagements from basic to 
Directors with co-leadership within the Corporate Responsibility  advanced WCM support levels for our suppliers.  FCA Purchasing 
Steering Committee, FCA employees are engaged in a number  implemented a program in 2018 designed to improve suppliers’ 
of other AIAG teams that partner automakers with suppliers.  shop floor management and to apply WCM continuous improvement 
Many of the initiatives promoted by AIAG focus on sustainability  tools in their facilities. Dedicated trainers from FCA plants provided 
issues and on streamlining tools and metrics across the industry.   weekly guidance and mentoring to improve a supplier’s key activity 
FCA works with AIAG to sponsor smaller companies, including sub- and performance indicators.
tier suppliers, to take part in AIAG work groups and to work with 
their larger peers on industry solutions.
Supplier Awards
Additional in-depth training on responsible working conditions 
is offered to suppliers in partnership with AIAG. This web-based  In 2018, FCA again honored outstanding suppliers from around the 
training is developed and updated collaboratively with other  world during our annual Supplier Award ceremonies. Suppliers were 
automakers and is designed to help protect the rights and dignity  recognized for their extraordinary commitment to innovation, quality, 
of the workers who make vehicle components. The training  continuous improvement and the FCA Purchasing organization’s 
helps to educate and create awareness among the procurement  Foundational Principles.
professionals who make sourcing decisions. It is provided at 
A distinct category recognizes companies for their commitment 
no cost to suppliers who take the training, which is available in 
to sustainability. Suppliers meeting eligibility requirements may 
eight languages and which is also provided to FCA Purchasing 
nominate their companies for the award by demonstrating 
employees.
excellence, innovation and the scope of their sustainability efforts in 
FCA  periodically  hosts  Supplier  Training  Weeks  during  the  environmental, social and governance categories.
year in Turin (Italy), Auburn Hills (U.S.) and Shanghai (China).  
The curriculum covers subjects related to purchasing, quality, supply 
chain management, manufacturing, finance, and engineering. The 
agenda also includes dedicated classes on sustainability-related 
topics such as responsible working conditions, environmental 
impacts and ethics. In 2018, more than 5,950 supplier attendees  “
took part in Supplier Training Weeks and other events. In addition,  Another aspect of 
we launched Virtual Classroom Offering, in which suppliers take 
supplier engagement 
part in a live, interactive setting from their desktop, avoiding the 
expense and extra time of traveling to a training site. focuses on fostering 
Within FCA’s eSupplierConnect portal, the supplier Learning Center 
innovation to improve 
provides learning opportunities and other resources for suppliers, 
including content and presentations for Supplier Training Week.   products, processes 
As the supply base continues to expand globally, it is necessary to 
and content. ”
effectively manage training information to enable the development, 
delivery and use of this material.
96