05_PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY CHAIN_SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT
    
SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT PROCESS
Suppliers to FCA commit to operating responsibly. This commitment  Preliminary Evaluation
to social, ethical and environmental principles is a condition to both 
Before FCA conducts business with a company, an evaluation 
becoming an FCA supplier and to developing an ongoing business 
helps determine its suitability based on a broad set of criteria. 
relationship with us.
Through the Supplier Eligibility Assessment (SEA), we identify 
Suppliers must conduct business activities according to ethical  a potential supplier’s strengths, weaknesses and capabilities 
standards and procedures set forth by FCA. The Company’s  to produce parts of the required quality, performance and cost, 
General Terms and Conditions require any new purchase order  and evaluate whether it has the potential to be a high-performing 
with suppliers to align with the principles set forth by FCA’s policies,  supplier for FCA. An extensive redesign of the SEA was initiated 
including the FCA Code of Conduct and the FCA Sustainability  in 2018 and requires potential suppliers to complete the same 
Guidelines for Suppliers. If a supplier fails to meet these standards,  Supplier Sustainability Self-Assessment (SSSA) expected of our 
a corrective action plan, jointly developed with FCA, is required.  established suppliers. If a potential supplier shows deficiencies 
Additional actions may be adopted by FCA in case of non- in any area of the assessment, a gap closure strategy is created 
compliance, including and up to termination of the business  to bring the supplier into compliance before business is sourced.
relationship.
The SEA is conducted prior to the procurement phase for those 
FCA’s Sustainability Guidelines for Suppliers, available on our  suppliers who are not currently providing parts to FCA. It can also 
corporate website as well as the supplier portal, focus on the  be used in situations in which a supplier’s location has not delivered 
following principles: a product type for more than 12 months, even if the supplier has 
already been assessed for other facilities, products, or commodities.
 Human rights and working conditions
Potential suppliers must demonstrate that they have adopted a 
program that promotes sustainability, both internally and along the 
• rejection of the use of forced or child labor in any form
supply chain; a code of conduct; a certified system for managing 
• recognition of the right to freedom of association in accordance 
employee  health  and  safety;  and  a  certified  environmental 
with applicable laws
management system. These conditions help ensure that they 
• freedom from harassment and discrimination
monitor and manage environmental aspects, labor practices, 
• safeguarding of employee health and safety
human rights, and their impact on society.
• guarantee  of  equal  opportunities,  fair  working  conditions, 
appropriate working time, equal compensation, and the right to  The SEA consists of an audit carried out at the supplier’s facility and 
training for employees. is generally preceded by the completion of a Supplier Data Profile. 
Subsequently, if required, corrective actions, responsibilities, and 
target dates for resolution can be defined for all identified items. 
 Respect for the environment
• optimized use of resources
Sustainability Assessment of Suppliers
• responsible waste management
• management of Substances of Concern in the manufacturing 
The assessment of supplier compliance with sustainability criteria is 
process 
conducted through three phases.
• development of low environmental impact products 
• use of an environmentally sustainable logistics system. The first phase consists of the SSSA questionnaire, which covers 
environmental issues, labor practices, human rights, compliance, 
ethics, diversity, and health and safety topics. Active FCA suppliers 
 Business ethics
are expected to complete the SSSA each year.
• high standards of integrity, honesty and fairness
This standardized tool was developed by the Automotive Industry 
• prohibition of corruption and money laundering.
Action Group (AIAG) in collaboration with FCA and other automakers 
and suppliers. This assessment has a two-fold purpose: to 
determine the level of sustainability activity within the supply base 
and to communicate FCA’s expectations to our suppliers. 
Suppliers complete the SSSA online by accessing it via the FCA 
eSupplierConnect portal.
97