05_PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY CHAIN_SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT
    
The second phase of assessing suppliers is the creation of the risk  The level of supplier sustainability compliance based on self-
map. Direct material suppliers are analyzed and rated on criteria  assessments and on-site audits are reported on the Global External 
that include: Balanced Scorecard, which provides standardized supplier metrics 
across all regions. Suppliers’ sustainability performance is captured 
• FCA spending on supplier
as a strategic indicator and is available on all regional scorecard 
• country risk associated with the supplier’s home country, with 
views.
particular emphasis on countries with a poor human rights record, 
according to the Worldwide Governance Indicators The Group plans to conduct sustainability audits or assessments 
• supplier’s financial risk of all Tier 1 suppliers with potential exposure to significant 
• supplier’s SSSA score environmental or social risks by 2020.
• supplier’s exposure to commodity risk based on process or labor 
intensity
• location of supplier’s main production activities (where available 
or known). 
The risk map score indicates a supplier’s overall risk level and is 
SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL 
used to prioritize supplier audits.
PERFORMANCE
Climate change is not an issue that can be solved in isolation. We 
expect our suppliers, dealers, contractors, business partners, 
licensees, and joint venture partners to comply with all environment-
related rules and regulations, and to adopt measures and standards 
contributing to an overall improvement in environmental impact 
throughout the value chain. We work with our suppliers and 
88
  encourage them to implement an environmental management 
system aligned with international standards.
sustainability audits
conducted at suppliers The Supplier Sustainability Self-Assessment (SSSA) includes a 
module dedicated to the supplier’s environmental management 
initiatives. SSSA submissions reflect a supply base that is 
On-site supplier sustainability audits - in the form of both announced 
seeking to optimize its use of resources and minimize emissions 
and semi-announced/unannounced - represent the third and 
and greenhouse gases; properly managing waste treatment and 
most intensive phase for confirming supplier compliance, and are 
disposal; managing energy and water use and adopting logistics 
conducted by either internal Supplier Operations Engineers or 
processes with minimized environmental impact.
external auditors. In 2018, we increased the number of suppliers 
audited, expanding from 48 in 2017 to 88 in 2018. This not only  FCA  supply  contracts  specify  our  support  of  responsible 
helps FCA, but strengthens our suppliers as well by identifying  procurement  by  requiring  every  material’s  adherence  to 
areas of improvement in which they can close gaps, becoming  environmental,  health  and  safety  requirements,  and  covers 
stronger and more sustainable. If any critical issues are identified  ingredients, formulas and handling procedures where relevant. 
during an audit, a supplier may be placed on watch status or, in  These requirements extend to our procurement practices through 
particularly severe cases, the relationship with the supplier may  the use of tools such as the International Material Data System 
be suspended or terminated. Where areas for improvement are  (IMDS) and Life Cycle Assessment.
identified, a corrective action plan is developed by FCA, the supplier 
Suppliers are required to submit detailed information on the 
and with the support of the third party auditors where applicable. 
material content and substances used in production and service 
Action plans establish specific responsibilities within the supplier’s 
parts through IMDS so substances can be traced back to the 
organization, activities and deadlines for implementation.
specific component. In this way, FCA can monitor, control, reduce, 
or eliminate regulated chemical substances that are restricted or 
prohibited in one or more markets.
98