05_PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY CHAIN_SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT
    
As directed by Substances of Concern regulations such as the  SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS 
European Union’s REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization 
AND LABOR PRACTICES
and Restriction of Chemicals), we require our suppliers to use 
chemicals whose contents meet our current standards for the 
management of Substances of Concern. The respect and support of fundamental human rights is essential 
for building a better future for the Company and the communities in 
The Group conducts thorough on-site audits to examine the 
which we do business. This belief is contained in the FCA Human 
supplier’s environmental management methods. These audits 
Rights Guidelines, which the Group promotes within our sphere of 
include a rigorous inspection of proper environmental management 
system documents and their mode of distribution in the work  influence. In these Guidelines, we express the expectation we have 
environment; accountability for ensuring compliance with the  of our suppliers, contractors and other business partners to adhere 
environmental management system; training programs provided  to these standards.
to employees; goals to improve environmental performance; and 
FCA is conscious of, and continues to be committed to, the safety 
any environmental certifications held by the supplier. In order to 
and integrity of our global manufacturing supply chain, with special 
prevent, mitigate or redress a negative impact encountered during 
focus on countries exposed to human rights abuses or armed 
inspection, a joint action plan is developed with the supplier.
conflict. The responsible procurement of raw materials for our 
Through recycling or remanufacturing, FCA partners with our  vehicles is vital. Although the source of any raw material may be 
suppliers to reduce the environmental impact of the components  several tiers removed in the supply chain, we recognize its place in 
we buy from them. For example, in collaboration with one of our  our sourcing process.
electric battery suppliers, we developed a program to repurpose 
Through engagement with several multi-stakeholder organizations, 
lithium-ion batteries for non-automotive applications such as 
both within and outside the automotive industry, FCA addresses not 
motorized wheelchairs. For more information, see the Vehicle End-
only the needs, but the opportunities that exist through ethical and 
of-Life Management section elsewhere in this report.
conscientious procurement practices during the mineral extraction, 
To promote awareness among suppliers of their potential impact on 
trade and processing stages. We are engaged in initiatives such 
climate change, particularly regarding greenhouse gas emissions, 
as the Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG) Corporate 
261 suppliers were invited to participate in the CDP Supply Chain 
Responsibility Steering Committee, which leads auto industry 
program in 2018. Of those invited, 185 suppliers disclosed (71% 
engagement in cobalt, mica, and Conflict Minerals activities and 
response rate), attaining an average score of B- (on a scale from 
relationships, and the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI).
A to D-).
FCA’s approach over the years has been built on assessments and 
FCA works with CDP to support this engagement and boost 
competency-building initiatives. Self-assessment questionnaires are 
supplier response rates through dedicated supplier training 
used to monitor the suppliers’ management systems with respect 
webinars. This training aims to communicate the importance and 
to basic human rights, health and safety in the workplace and fair 
benefits from transparently reporting on impacts. Approximately 
working conditions. Suppliers are also expected to establish a 
78% of responding suppliers reported scope 1 and scope 2 
management system to systematically assess occupational health 
emissions.
By 2020, the Group expects to monitor 90-100% of top Group  and safety risks; to measure performance through key indicators; 
suppliers’ CO emissions (accounting for about 57% of annual  and to extend their health and safety policies to their contractors.
2
purchases by value) through the CDP supply chain program. 
Finally, FCA expects suppliers to take appropriate steps to prevent 
In 2018, disclosing suppliers accounted for approximately 55% of 
child labor and forced or compulsory labor, as well as to recognize 
FCA annual purchases by value from direct and indirect material 
the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining.
suppliers.
99