05_PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY CHAIN_SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT
    
Conflict Minerals • support initiatives to verify smelters and refiners that are conflict-
free and expect our suppliers to utilize any such conflict-free 
The vehicles we produce contain various metals, including tantalum, 
smelter/refiner programs that are available
tin, tungsten and gold. These metals are commonly referred to 
• verify  all  incoming  Conflict  Minerals  Reporting  Template 
as Conflict Minerals and they may originate from the Democratic 
submissions from our suppliers
Republic of the Congo (DRC) or surrounding countries, often referred 
• provide detailed smelter analysis to suppliers reporting non-
to as “covered countries.” In some cases, illegal rebel groups control 
conformant smelters in their supply chain.
mines and the trade and movement of Conflict Minerals to finance 
their operations. This may also represent a risk of incidents of child,  To prepare suppliers for current and upcoming regulations, FCA 
forced or compulsory labor in our sub-tier supply chain. provided training in 2018 in the U.S., Europe and Asia regarding 
Conflict Minerals and ethical sourcing. In 2018, FCA refreshed our 
In collaboration with the Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG), 
Conflict Minerals Policy to improve clarity and expectations to better 
FCA has developed strategies addressing Section 1502 of the U.S. 
express the requirements we place on our suppliers when sourcing 
Dodd-Frank Act, which requires companies to determine whether 
these minerals.
tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold in their supply chain originated 
from the covered countries, and whether the procurement of 
Raw Material Sourcing
those minerals supported the armed conflict in this region. FCA 
works closely with the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), and its  FCA engages with industry and cross-sector groups to promote and 
Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP). Participation on  develop our raw material supply chain, focusing on, but not limiting 
RMI sub-teams that include the Smelter Engagement, Plenary, and  our efforts to, commodities such as cobalt and mica. Cobalt is of 
the Due Diligence Practices Teams has provided an opportunity  growing interest for the auto industry due to its use in electric vehicle 
for FCA to collaborate with other member companies as we work  batteries. Utilizing and teaching our suppliers the OECD 5-Step 
together to develop best practices for supply chain due diligence.  Framework for Upstream and Downstream Supply Chains provides 
At the end of 2018, 258 smelters and refiners have been validated  a common and foundational tool that helps solidify responsible 
as conformant to the RMAP or cross-sector recognized standards. sourcing practices and decisions made throughout our supply chain.
In the covered countries, there are also companies and individuals  FCA has joined other automakers and leaders from other industries 
engaged in legal business activities, with no connection to any illegal  in becoming a signatory of the Responsible Raw Materials Initiative 
activities. We strive to ensure that such companies’ or individuals’  (part of the Responsible Minerals Initiative) Declaration of Support. 
business activities and livelihoods are not harmed by our efforts to  This cross-sector engagement brings together experts from 
avoid using minerals that are illegally obtained. To this end, we work  numerous industries to use their global presence and leverage 
to promote sourcing from responsible sources in the region through  to drive ground-level improvements in the mining of metals and 
engagement with RMI and other organizations. Through AIAG and  minerals through process, tool and infrastructure improvements. 
RMI, along with other stakeholder organizations, we are helping to  The Cobalt Reporting Template, a supply chain reporting tool 
build fair supply chains of minerals in the covered countries. based on the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template, was finalized 
and launched in 2018. Through a collaborative effort, the RMI has 
As outlined by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and 
developed and recently launched the Risk Readiness Assessment, 
Development (OECD) Guidance, we work with our suppliers to 
which addresses environmental, social and governance risks present 
determine the presence of Conflict Minerals in our supply chain. This 
in the global supply chain. This tool can help improve supply chain 
process begins by surveying more than 870 in-scope direct and 
transparency and mapping to more efficiently and pre-emptively 
after-market suppliers about their use of tantalum, tin, tungsten and 
mitigate undesirable practices as they relate to Conflict Minerals, 
gold in order to obtain smelter information.
cobalt and other raw materials. Further, RMI is collaborating with 
Further, we: the Responsible Cobalt Initiative on a joint cobalt refiner pilot audit 
program, aligned with the OECD Due Diligence Guidance and the 
• expect our suppliers to source materials from suppliers who also 
Chinese Due Diligence Guidelines for Mineral Supply Chains.
source responsibly, including from legitimate, conflict-free mines 
in the covered countries
• require all the relevant suppliers to conduct the necessary due 
diligence and provide us with proper verification of the country 
of origin and source of the materials used in the products they 
supply to FCA
100