Our Value Creation Our Purpose and Identity
→ Our Value Creation over time
over time
We create tangible value for all our stakeholders by providing real solutions to real needs.  Thanks to the great team at UniCredit, the  changes in the external environment, including 
This is what we mean by Banking that matters. We are One Bank, One UniCredit - a simple,  Transform 2019 plan has been successfully  evolving stakeholder concerns, climate change 
successful pan-European commercial bank with a fully plugged-in Corporate and Investment  delivered, laying solid foundations for the new  and the limitation of natural resources, in order to 
strategic goals launched in December 2019 with our  find	internal	responses	to	address	expectations,	
Bank (CIB), delivering a unique Western, Central and Eastern European network to our 
new strategic plan Team 23.  generate value and to make the organization more 
extensive and growing client franchise. In line with our Ethics and Respect values, we are 
resilient.
committed to doing the right thing for shareholders, clients, colleagues, communities and the 
Value creation for UniCredit does not just mean 
environment to make sure that UniCredit remains a pan-European winner. generating	financial	value,	but	also	adding	value	 In this process, listening to stakeholders is of the 
with regard to human capital, society and the  utmost importance. Intercepting their needs and 
environment. expectations can orient us towards making the 
CAPITALS right decisions regarding our offer of responsible 
Our business model allows our Group to interact  lending products, savings, payment and investment 
Financial Human Social and Intellectual Natural with the market environment in a sustainable way  products, thus enabling individuals to improve their 
relationship
and can easily be reproduced in every market where  quality	of	life	and	financial	stability.	We	also	provide	
our Group operates. This simple model enables  funding to small, medium and large businesses 
us to transform our resources and relationships  and	contribute	to	financing	the	development	of	
into results which, in turn, help us to achieve our  key sectors, contributing to economic growth, job 
strategic goals and create value over the short,  creation and innovation in the countries where we 
GOVERNANCE
medium and long term. operate.
input
Serving our customers to the best of our abilities  By	fostering	financial	literacy,	promoting	inclusion	
BUSINESS continues to be our number one priority. To achieve  and gender equality and conserving natural 
MODEL this,	we	rely	on	highly	qualified,	committed	 resources, we promote the well-being of individuals 
employees and on our capacity to work together  and protect the environment. As a result of our 
MARKET ENVIRONMENT ACBTIAVNITKIES esyffneecrtgivye. Wly,e c trheaerteinfgo rteh ree Omnaein T ecaomm,m Ointtee dU ntoiC fruerdtiht er  aalpspor ocaocnhtr, iabnudte g tuoi daecdh ibeyv ionugr  tbhues Uinneistes dm Noadteiol,n ws’e  
Risks and opportunities  (Commercial Banking and  mretauxrinmsi sfionrg t hpero fduutuctreiv.ity and delivering sustainable  oSuusr tpariongarbelses D teovwealordpsm tehnet S GDoGasl sv i(aS DmGesa).s1u Wreea bmleo nKiPtoIsr  
Corporate & Investment Banking)
resulting from the management of material topics 
Our value creation process also relies on robust  and related risks and opportunities.
business ethics. Our Ethics and Respect values, 
RTS CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY together with our simple guiding principle to do  The core of our business is therefore to support 
A CITIZENSHIP
ET the right thing, are applied to everything we do  customers and stakeholders in managing social 
G
Y - T output at all times and are at the core of our stakeholder  and	environmental	challenges	and	financing	
ra interactions to generate sustainable results. We  their investments for a sustainable future. More 
nsfor work	to	manage	our	financial,	human,	social	and	 than ever, sustainability forms a central part 
m 2019 - Team 23 2019 relationship, natural and intellectual capital in a  of everything we do and is fully integrated into 
outcomes
responsible manner. our business and decision-making process, in 
accordance with the strategic sustainability targets 
At UniCredit the way we achieve results is just as  announced in November 2019.2 These will be 
important as the results themselves. achieved by involving all business structures and 
under the guidance of our Board of Directors and 
ECONOMIC VALUE SOCIAL VALUE ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE
Understanding how the company’s capitals,  senior management. 
€ 18.8 bn 13,600 -55%
strategic pillars and business model are 
operating  employees engaged GHG emissions
incomeA on Diversity and InclusionB since 2008 interconnected and interact is the key to our  To support this endeavour, our Five Fundamentals 
path towards integrated thinking, essential for  remain, and shall remain, the behaviours we expect 
€ 482.6 bn € 45 m € 6.9 bn
the correct development of our value creation  our employees to follow in order to reach our 
loans and receivables contributions portfolio exposureD 
with customers to communitiesC to renewable energy sector process over time. This means being able to detect  targets.
A. Reclassified data.
B. Data refer to the Diversity and Inclusion week. 1. Refer to the Stakeholder Engagement chapter for more information. 
C.  Impacts from Business Innovation for Social Impact amounts to additional €5.9 million, related to Social Impact Banking project. For more information, please  2. Refer to the UniCredit press release from 26 November 2019 for more information.
refer to Social and relationship Capital chapter.
D. EAD, Exposure at Default. Excluding Turkey.
20 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 21