Governance Our Purpose and Identity
→ Governance
Board composition
FOCUS MATERIAL 
The UniCredit Board of Directors - both on an individual  Sustainability governance and strategy TOPICS
UniCredit’s system of corporate governance promotes clarity, accountability and the creation 
and collective level - meets the requirements established  In support of the Board, the Corporate Governance, 
of sustainable long-term value. by the relevant Italian and European provisions as well as  Nomination and Sustainability Committee (CGN&S) 
qualitatively and quantitatively matches the theoretical  is responsible, inter alia, for supervising sustainability 
profile	approved	by	the	Board	itself2. issues within our Organisation. In 2019 the Committee 
was also assigned with the supervision of ethics issues. 
Governance model
In this new task the Committee is supported by the 
Board in numbers
Chief	Ethics	Officer,	a	new	senior	position	created	in	
(as at the approval of this Report)
UniCredit is an Italian listed company, with a  Organisational and governance structure 2019, responsible for coordinating all ethics matters, 
traditional management and control system,  (as at December 31, 2019) Balance of executive and non-executive directors reporting to the Board and the CEO, and acting as an 
which assigns specific responsibilities to the  advisor to the Group.
Shareholders’ Meeting and allows for a clear  CHAIRMAN 1 The emissions related to the printCinEgO  aenxde cduistitvriebution of Tthhee  2C0om19m Aitntneeu aClG RNe&pSo rhta as npdla Ayeccdo au knetys  role in ensuring 
BOARD OF and the 2019 Integrated Report have been compensated with the support of Ofﬁcinæ Verdi, which uses Gold Standard credits 
exchange of views between shareholders and  STATUTORY that sustainability issues were integrated in the new  Material topics
management on fundamental decisions relating  BOARD  AUDITORS 13gained through the development of an opnro-egxraemcumtivee fsor biogass tprraotdeguicct piolann f oTre admom 23es atsic a uns iamgpeo irnt aKnetn cyoam.ponent 
OF DIRECTORS The Gold Standard is supported by WWF as it is the most rigorous 
to governance. These include appointing and  of the Bank’s business model (e.g. inclusion of climate 
Board gender balance global certiﬁcation standard for carbon offset projects.
removing Directors, appointing members to the  Internal risk in the Risk Appetite Framework of the Bank as 
Board of Statutory Auditors, granting a mandate  Audit 36% 64% requested by the Internal Controls & Risks Committee).  INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
for external auditing to an audit firm and  The Committee also supervises the evolution of 
Female Male Digitalization and innovation
approving all associated fees. Such decisions also  sustainability in accordance with international 
Value to customer
include the approval of financial statements, the  Age group guidelines and principles on the subject and monitors 
allocation of profits, resolutions on remuneration  Internal Corporate the Group’s performance, as well as keeping abreast 
and incentive policies and practices in accordance  Controls Governance,  14% 64% 22% of stakeholder concerns. The Committee is supported  LEAN AND SOLID BANK
& Risks  BOARD Nomination and
with current provisions, as well as setting criteria  Committee COMMITTEES Sustainability <50 50-65 >65 by the Group Sustainability & Foundation function in  Bank solidity
to determine compensation to be granted in the  Committee Geographical mix performing its activities. Lean and transparent organization
event of early termination of employment or early 
retirement from office.1  71% 29%
PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
 Related-Parties Remuneration
Committee Committee Italy Other countriesA Sustainability embedded in the new  Employees' development
Governance structure evolution Board independence Cover and Introduction: UniCrreedmit Su.pn.Ae.ration policy Diversity and inclusion
as per Articles of 
CEO AssociationSs oarntde rth pea ges: UniCredit S.p.A.
In a continuous effort to streamline the governance  11 GrCaoprhpoicr adtee vGeolvoeprnmanecnet C aondde compositIino nth: eM Teeracumri 2o 3G sPtrategic plan, sustainability forms 
EXECUTIVE an ever more central part of everything we do and  ETHICS
structure, and in alignment with the lean but steering  Print: CPZ S.p.A. (Bergamo)
organisation targeted in the Transform 2019 strategic  OTHER MANAGEMENT 13 as per TUFB April 2020 is fully integrated into our business and decision- Fair business behavior
MANAGERIAL COMMITTEE
making	process.	As	a	further	confirmation	of	our	 Business ethics
plan, in 2019 UniCredit put in place a reorganisation  COMMITTEES
commitment to ESG Topics, Sustainability KPIs will be 
of its management which will have full ownership  AveraTghee t Ienntuegrera lteendg Rtehp -o 2rt0 a1n9dC :S  u3p ypeleamrsent have been made available at www.unicreditgroup.eu
formally embedded in the new 2020-23 Long-Term 
of the new Team 23 strategic plan presented to the  and also available for download by activating the QR code below. SYSTEMIC TRENDS
Board attendance rate - 2019C
Group Group Incentive Plan (LTIP) for the CEO, Top Management 
markets on December 3, 2019. Compliance Legal 95%   and other Key Players in the Group, thereby  Cyber security
Climate change
representing an integral part of UniCredit’s strategy 
In the framework of a wider organisational review, 
to generate long-term results with a renewed focus  Demograﬁc change
a new Group function called Finance & Controls  Group Risk Group Human A. Includes Austria, France, Spain, United Arab Emirates. 
has been created. It is an extended function which,  Management Capital B. Legislative Decree No. 58 dated 24 February 1998. on improving customer experience and a constant 
in addition to Planning, Finance & Administration  YCo. Rue fmerrainyg  tao ltshoe  Broeaqrdu meesmt bae rcs oinp oyffi cfer oasm at:  DUecneimCbreerd 3i1t,  2-0 G19r.o up Sustainabdielidtyic Patiaioznz at oG iates  Apeuolepnleti., 20154 Milan, Italy POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
and Investor Relations activities, also incorporates  e-mail: groupsustainability@unicredit.eu Positive impact on society
Directors’ competencies
those of Group Identity and Communication, Group 
Regulatory Affairs, Strategy and M&A, Group 
Lending	Office	and	Group	Institutional	Affairs	and	 Commercial Commercial Chief Finance
Sustainability. It also functionally coordinates the  Banking Corporate Banking Operating & Controls
Western Investment Central OfﬁceB
activities of Group Legal, Group Risk Management,  EuropeA Banking Eastern
and Group Compliance, that will continue to report  Division EuropeA
hierarchically to the CEO, facilitating the achievement 
A. Position covered by two Co-CEOs.
of synergies within the overall area of competence. B. Position covered by two Co-Heads.
93% 86% 64% 64% 57% 57% 57% 57% 50%
International Financial and Banking Banking Strategic Risk and Accounting Legal / Sustainability
experience international business governance planning control & audit regulatory
markets
1. R efer to the annual Report on Corporate Governance and Ownership Structure and the 2020 Group Remuneration Policy and Report, available on the  2. R efer to the annual Report on Corporate Governance and Ownership Structure available on the Governance section of the Company’s website (www.unicreditgroup.eu) 
Governance section of the Company’s website (www.unicreditgroup.eu), for more information. for more information. 2019 Integrated Report
22 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 23