Risk Management  Our Purpose and Identity
→ Risk Management and Compliance
and Compliance
UniCredit 2019 adoption of key institutional and international initiatives  MATERIAL 
TOPICS
TCFD Task Force on Climate-Related Financial DisclosureA recommendations
PACTA Paris Agreement Capital Transition Assessment methodology developed by 2° Investing Initiative (2°ii)B
Risk is an implicit aspect of our business that we necessarily have to deal with every day, making 
European	Banking	Authority	2020	voluntary	pilot	sensitivity	exercise	that	will	provide	a	first	estimate	of	the	
EBA 2020
risk management and compliance fundamental processes of our culture. As highlighted in our  amount of brown and green exposures held by banks
Team 23 Strategic Plan, we aim to mitigate risk by adhering to a Risk Appetite Framework which 
A. Refer to the TCFD section for more information.
balances sustainable future objectives with the healthy long-term growth of our business. B. The 2° Investing Initiative (2°ii) is the global think tank for developing climate and long-term risk metrics and related policy options in financial markets. 
Over the course of the year the structure dedicated  An insurance covering cyber events at Group level 
Strengthening 
to Information and Communication Technology  has been renewed. 
Risk Management  (ICT) & Cyber Risks has been further strengthened 
The emissions related to the printing and distribution of the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 
with both internal and external resources to 
and the 2019 Integrated Report have been compensated with the support of Ofﬁcinæ Verdi, which uses Gold Standard credits 
incorporate a wider range of expertise even from  k
Governance reinforcement Material topics
The current complex and demanding scenario calls  Management	(GRM)	office,	responsible	for	the	supervision	 otghaeirn eindd tuhsrtoruiegsh. the development of a programme for biogas psroduction for domestic usage in Kenya.
i
for a strategic and holistic perspective towards  and management of processes related to climate  The Gold Standard is supported by WWF as Rit is the most rigorous 
managing	diversified	and,	in	certain	cases,	increased	 change risks and UniCredit’s approach to sensitive  During 2019, several cougrsloebsa ol fc aecrttiiﬁocna wtioenre s ttaaknedna rtdo  for carbonr  offset projectEsn.d-to-End business process 
completion in line with 
risks. In accordance with this urgent need, in 2019 we  sectors.	The	first	activity	put	in	place	by	the	team	focuse	d reinforce the Group’s cyber risk protection: e
b regulatory requests INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
further strengthened our risk management approach.  on assessing the transition risk of listed companies in  • the ICT operational risk assessments on 
y Digitalization and innovation
Firstly, in alignment with the UniCredit operational  our Corporate & Investment Banking portfolio in order  end-to-end business processes were completed 
C
KRI adjustment to ICT metrics Value to customer
risk framework, we updated our methodology for the  to	effectively	manage	their	environmental	risk	profile	. throughout the Group to comply with regulatory 
identification	and	assessment	of	all	the	risks	inherent	to	 Furthermore, a relevant methodology will be deployed for  requests
our material products, activities, processes and systems  other corporate clusters. • the weight of Key Risk Indicators (KRI) was  Periodical joint team analysis LEAN AND SOLID BANK
and developed a series of measurements, mitigation  increased to adjust the ICT risk metric Bank solidity
policies, procedures and controls. Secondly, we took  With reference to physical risk, preliminary analyses  • a more forward-looking risk assessment 
Lean and transparent organization
steps to embed climate related risks and we reinforced  have been started estimating most important  methodology was piloted in UniCredit and  Surveillance activity on external 
cyber risk protection. We also constantly work on all  impacts connected with climate change risk. UniCredit Services and will be released across the  cyber events
PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
the risks the bank is exposed to. These include credit,  Group in 2020. Recurrent monitoring of KRI on 
reputation, liquidity, interest rates, compliance, the  Moreover, during the year, thanks to the continuous  relevant IT and cyber phenomena was established  Cyber Risk inclusion in RAF 2020 Employees' development
environment, society and other emerging areas. cooperation between the business, risk and lending  and regular reporting managerCiaolv ceor manmdi tIntetreosd wucetrieo n: UniCredit S.p.A. Diversity and inclusion
functions,	the	firm	commitment	to	sustainability	 set up Sorter pages: UniCredit S.p.A.
With	regard	to	climate	change,	both	scientific	evidence	 has also been enriched, supported by clear targets  • periodical joint team anaGlryaspish aicn dde mveeleotpimngesn at raen d compositOiovne:r  Mtheer yceuarrios,  GwPe have continued to reinforce our 
ETHICS
and the increasing stakeholder awareness on climate  for 20231 to address climate change related risks  scheduled to ensure a common view Porfi nrits: kCsP, Zro So.pt .A. (Bergaampop)roach to human rights and we have evolved to 
Fair business behavior
issues make UniCredit’s action a priority. In this context  including: assisting customers towards the transition to  causes and mitigation actions which are thenA pril 2020 respond to the expectations of our stakeholders. The most 
Business ethics
we are exposed to physical, economic, regulatory and  a low-carbon emission economy; improving our policies  reported to senior management updated version of UniCredit Human Rights Commitment 
transition	risks.	These	risks	can	have	potential	significan	t with regard to climate-related sectors; strengthening  • we mTahkee I nutseeg oraf tiendt eRrenpaol ratn adn edx Stuerpnpalel msoeunrtc ehsa vtoe  been madeis a avvaaiillaabbllee  oant  twhwe Uwn.uiCnriecdreitd witegbrosiutep .aenud summarises 
credit, market and reputational consequences that  our commitment to not supporting companies involved  perform a surveillaanndce a alscot iavvitayi loanb leex ftoerr dnoawl cnylboaedr  by activattihneg G trhoeu pQ’sR  acpopdreo abcehl otow h.uman rights, focusing on some  SYSTEMIC TRENDS
necessitate the development of a bank-wide climate  in the deforestation of rainforests. In this way, some  events in order to identify potential threats and    stakeholder categories such as employees, customers,  Cyber security
risk	management	framework.	A	very	first	step	in	th	e quantitative indicators have been integrated into the  impacts on the Group suppliers and communities. It is based on international 
Climate change
achievement of this important aspiration was the  Risk Appetite Framework (RAF) 2020 to monitor the  • there is an ongoing process to identify the most  declarations and conventions, standards, principles, 
Demograﬁc change
setting up of a dedicated team within the Group Risk  achievement of the declared targets. suitable approach to include cyber risk within the  guidelines and recommendations, including The Universal 
2020 risk appetite framework process which will  Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour 
UniCredit is  Yobue m eanyh aanlscoe dre wquitehs tq au acloitpayt ifvreo mst:a UtenmiCerendtsit  a-n Gdr oup SustainabOirlgitayn Piziaatziozan ’sG Fauen Adualmenentit, a2l 0H1u5m4a nM Riliagnh,t sIt Caolynventions.  POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
aware of the  indicators. e-mail: groupsustainability@uWniec	raerde	ict.oemumitted	to	fighting	modern	slavery	and	human	 Positive impact on society
The update of the Policy, defining the Group’s strategy towards financing 
growing energy  trafficking	in	our	business	and	supply	chains.	In	this	regard	,
the Coal sector, introduces a restrictive approach and prohibits the 
demand and  financing of new projects. UniCredit is also compliant with section 54 of the United 
related financing 
Kingdom’s Modern Slavery Act 2015.2
needs, but it is 
also resolutely 
At the beginning of the year, UniCredit signed 
committed to  A new Policy was approved to define principles and rules for business 
safeguarding  activities on the Oil & Gas Industry Sector in the Arctic Region and for  a Global Framework Agreement (GFA) with UNI 
the planet.  Non-Conventional Oil & Gas related activities. Global Union.3 The agreement strengthens the 
dialogue between the two parties on human rights 
and fundamental labour rights and confirms the 
As a result, UniCredit committed to stop providing 
financial support to projects in controversial sectors 
that have the greatest impact on climate change.
2. The Modern Slavery Act 2015 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, designed to combat modern slavery in the UK.
1.Refer to Strategy chapter for more information. 3. UNI Global Union is a global union federation for skills and services, gathering national and regional trade unions. It represents more than 20 million workers  2019 Integrated Report
from over 150 countries. 
24 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 25