Our Purpose and Identity Our Purpose and Identity
→ Risk Management and Compliance → Risk Management and Compliance
Group’s commitment to the highest international  plan. It represents the anchor point for measuring  risk RWA and its market risk RWA account for €33 billion  The main goal of liquidity management is to ensure  MATERIAL 
TOPICS
standards in this area. The document includes,  the risk in relation to capital, to liquidity, to business  (8.7 percent) and €11.5 billion (3.0 percent), respectively,  that	the	Group	has	a	sufficient	level	of	liquidity	
inter alia, a specific commitment to protecting  strategies and the recovery plan. In this process  of its total RWA.  to honour its payment obligations not only on an 
human rights, in alignment with the Group’s Code  the RAF takes into account the macro-economic  ongoing basis, but also under stressed conditions.6
of conduct and the general environmental and  environment, the competitive landscape and  RWA by type 2019
social principles and in observance of the United  regulatory requirements. It represents a sound risk  €bn In	2020	the	maturity	of	the	first	tranche	of	the	Targete	d
334.3 11.5
Nations Guidelines on Business and Human Rights.4  management steering tool across the Group and has  Longer-Term	Refinancing	Operations	(TLTRO)	will	be	paid	
been strengthened further by recent improvements  back. The Group will keep a broadly balanced funding 
378.8
In 2019 more than 27,200 colleagues received made also in consideration of the goals of the new  33.0 gap evolution, particularly in the CEE Countries, while 
training in human rights, for a total of 29,252 hours. strategic plan Team 23.  Credit Operational Market supporting the volumes growth in Western Europe. The 
These enhancements are tangible in all areas of risk. In  funding plan will be mostly devoted to generating an 
With the safeguarding against reputational risks  particular: Over the course of 2019 we concluded and exceeded  adequate buffer over the minimum total loss absorption 
at the forefront of our attention, during the year  • I n credit risk: we will reinforce our risk discipline with  the goals underlying the Transform 2019 plan in terms  capacity (TLAC) and minimum requirements for own 
The emissions related to the printing and distribution of the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 
we reinforced our governance on the subject. The  regard to the origination, underwriting and monitoring  of risk deleveraging. Performance was sustained by an  funds and eligible liabilities (MREL). For this purpose, a 
and the 2019 Integrated Report have been compensated with the support of Ofﬁcinæ Verdi, which uses Gold Standard credits 
Group Reputational Risk Council, implemented in  of new loans. These efforts represent the continuation  accelerated reduction in gross non-performing exposure  subholding company will be created to optimise MREL 
Material topics
gained through the development of a programme for biogas production for domestic usage in Kenya.
2018, became a Committee in its own right in 2019.  of the conservative risk approach adopted by our Group  (NPE), down €12.9 billion (-34 percent ) during the  requirements in the medium term. In general, the overall 
The Gold Standard is supported by WWF as it is the most rigorous 
The Group Reputational Risk Committee (GRRC) is  through Transform 2019. The RAF 2020 will include new  period, with a gross NPE ratio decreasing 268 bps to 5.0  intragroup exposure (not MREL related) will be reduced. 
global certiﬁcation standard for carbon offset projects.
responsible for the assessment of the reputational risks  Key Performance Indicators (KPI) to better steer these  percent, more than half the ratio of when we launched 
of initiatives, bank transactions, projects, customers  targets across both the Group legal entity and divisional  Transform 2019. Since 2016, the decrease amounts to 
INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
and other business activities. The GRRC supports the  level;  €31 billion (-55 percent) coupled with an NPE coverage 
Fostering a sound  Digitalization and innovation
Group	Chief	Risk	Officer	on	governance	guidelines	for	the	 • I n liquidity risk: the RAF has been enhanced thanks to  increase from 55.6 percent to 65.2 percent (+ 961 bps) 
Value to customer
management of reputational risk on sensitive sectors  the	introduction	of	new	KPIs	aiming	at	better	defining	 thus	confirming	the	strong	performance	and	tangible	 Risk Culture
and customer relationships, of related mitigation  the long-term strategy, ensuring an adequate buffer of  results on NPE. Moreover, the accelerated rundown 
actions and of all other relevant topics submitted by  assets over the new strategic plan horizon to be used as  strategy of the non-core portfolio is well on track and  LEAN AND SOLID BANK
the operational and reputational risk function. The  collateral for secured funding and steering the level of  will be completed by 2021. This follows the already  UniCredit remains loyal to fostering a sound risk  Bank solidity
GRRC involves the proposing Business function together  intra-group exposure. significant	reduction	of	€28.5	bn	achieved	since	2016. culture throughout the organisation in order for 
Lean and transparent organization
with	Group	risk	management,	Group	lending	office	, • I n market risk: for 2020 RAF KPIs, an enhanced  growth to be sustainable. An opportunity available to 
Group compliance, Group legal, Group sustainability &  methodology for setting thresholds embedding the  Loan Amount as of  Y/Y  all colleagues is the important training offer Group 
foundation and evaluates the participation of the CEO  stress test analysis will be implemented. classiﬁcationA Dec 31st, 2019B changeC Risk Learning Framework.6 To this end, in 2019 a GRM  PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
and other relevant functions on a case-by-case basis.  • I n	non-financial	risks:	in	addition	to	the	inclusion	 Bad exposures €12,491 m -41% 76.3% communication plan was developed which involved  Employees' development
of climate change5	and	ICT	&	cyber	risk,	significan	t Cover and Introduction: UniCrtewdoit G SR.pM.A a.nd GLO web calls and a roadshow in  Diversity and inclusion
In this context, the Defence Policy was updated to  improvements have been made by including  Unlikely to pay €11,934 m S-2o6rt%er pa5g5es.9: %UniCredit SV.ipe.nAn.a	and	Munich.	Moreover,	a	specific	campaign	
enhance the related reputational risk assessment. Anti-Money Laundering and Financial Sanctions in the  Graphic development and compositoionn o: pMeerarctiuornioa lG rPisk was completed in order to raise 
ETHICS
RAF. Non-performing €870 m +P4r%int: CP3Z3 S.7.p%.A. (Bergafmurot)her awareness amongst employees.
past due Fair business behavior
April 2020
Business ethics
s The intranet section of UniCredit GRM was updated 
t 19 Performing €476,333 m +4% 0.5%
gh Number of  Managing and  The Integrated Report and Supplement have been madec oanvsatialanbtlley  datu rwinwgw t.huen yiceraerd aitngdro turapc.ekued around 
hli Meetings monitoring risks and also available for download by activat1in0g0 ,t0h0e0 Q vRie cwosd.e below. SYSTEMIC TRENDS
9 hig A. Loan Classiﬁcation inclupdRreoissﬁk: lB ead exposures: exposures to borrowers inC aor vsaettaritaoeg  oef  In	2019	specific	risk	culture	initiatives	were	also	 CCylibmear tsee cchuarintyge
1 In	2019	we	reinforced	our	simplification	efforts	related	 dedicated to the Board of Directors:
0 44 insolvency (even when not recognized in a court of law) or in an essentially  Demograﬁc change
2 Analyzed  to the management of lending processes in our Group.  similar situation, regardless of any loss forecasts made by the bank; Unlikely to  • Induction Programme for Board members to ensure 
C  transactions The activity was managed in cooperation with the  pay: classiﬁcation in this category is the result of the judgment of the bank  continuous	ad-hoc	training	(also	for	the	benefit	
R about the unlikeliness, without recourse to actions such as realizing collaterals, 
R of which 35 refer to  Group	Lending	Office	(GLO)	and	Commercial	Banking	 Yotuha mt thae yob aliglosro w irlle pqayu ien sfutll  a(p rcinocippayl  afnrdo /m or :in UternesitC) irtes cdreitd it- o Gblirgoatuiopns ;S ustainabiloitf ym Peiamzbzae rGs aoef  Athuele Bnotia, r2d0 o1f5 S4ta Mtuiltaonry,  IAtauldyitors),  POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
G the defense sector Italy.	As	a	result,	product	catalogue	has	been	simplified	. Non-performing past due: problematic exposuere-sm thaat ialr:e  gmrooreu tphasnu 9s0t daaiyns ability@unaicdrderdeist.seiung both individual and collective Board  Positive impact on society
past due on any material obligation; Performing: exposures which are not past 
For example, technical forms of collaterals have been  due for more than 90 days or to borrowers in a problematic state. member needs
B. Total loans to customers exclude the receivables arising from subleases 
massively reduced (i.e. -89 percent for all customers).  • Implementation of activities related to the Board 
recognised due to the application of IFRS16; it should be noted that 
The main advantages are: an easier product selection  following the deconsolidation of FinecoBank S.p.A., this amount do not  Training Programme Process Handbook, one of the 
Reinforcing our Risk  include loans referred to that company.
for customers’ best interest, more time to dedicate to  aims of which is to strengthen their knowledge of 
C. Based upon ﬁgures as at 31 December 2018, different from the ones 
Appetite Framework customers’ needs, a decrease in operational risk and  published at the reference date due to the exclusion of the loans of  key issues such as performance and risks. 
FinecoBank S.p.A. and its subsidiary for the purposes of presentation on the 
simplified	monitoring	and	product	maintenance	activities	.
same comparable basis with the amounts as at 31 December 2019.
As a pan-European commercial bank, UniCredit’s main 
The	Group	Risk	Appetite	Framework	(RAF)	defines	 risk	exposure	is	reflected	in	its	share	of	Risk	Weighte	d
the level of risk that the UniCredit Group is willing to  Assets (RWA). Its credit risk, at 88.3 percent, depends on 
accept in pursuing its strategic objectives and business  geographic areas and asset classes, while its operational 
4. Refer to the Supplement - Human Capital section for more information. 2019 Integrated Report
5. Refer to the Strategy chapter for more information. 6. Refer to 2018 Integrated Report for more information.
26 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 27