Our Purpose and Identity Our Purpose and Identity
→ Risk Management and Compliance → Risk Management and Compliance
Compliance culture: our 
  Governance  • l ead the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)  As we believe in people and in the enhancement of their  MATERIAL 
TOPICS
prerequisite to make  Reinforcing the oversight and steering mechanism is  Group Project to ensure full implementation of law  skills, we invest in human capital through consistent and 
one of our priorities. This is why we have increased the  requirements  regular planning of relevant initiatives. 
the business healthy 
implementation	of	specific	actions	such	as:	 • s upport the setting up of business projects 
• s trengthening the interaction between Holding and  implementing new regulatory requirements such as  At UniCredit we are all accountable for compliant 
and sustainable
sub-holdings Companies and Legal Entities (LEs) Financial Benchmarks.  behaviour and must adhere to the regulations applied 
• s tating that the same position can be covered for a  As for advisory activities, the Compliance Antitrust  in our business. We can also play an active role by 
At UniCredit, compliance is an inseparable aspect of  maximum of 5 years and for which each Compliance  Programme was refreshed at Group level and further  reporting any unacceptable behaviour and unlawful 
the Group’s business activities. Our commitment to  Officer/AML	Officer	of	the	Group	has	a	defined	 focused on payments and other transactional services, in  acts. Whistleblowing is encouraged as each of us can 
compliance is founded on our internal approach to  succession plan cooperation with our business functions. The complaints  be	the	bank’s	first	line	of	defence.	The	Global	Policy	
proper conduct, is consistent with our Group’s core values  • s trengthening the relevant Group managerial processes  reporting process, standards and related information  on Whistleblowing has recently been updated. New 
and fundamentals and meets the expectations of our  and their extention to all LEs, making sure that they  flows	were	enhanced,	as	well	as	the	Compliance	role	i	n channels dedicated to third parties have been set up 
customers, regulators, and society as a whole. are not only accurately designed but also correctly  the monitoring of activities related to the offer of non-core  and an extended description of Serious Reports in line 
The emissions related to the printing and distribution of the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 
implemented products and the setting of related minimum requirements.  with the new escalation process has been submitted 
and the 2019 Integrated Report have been compensated with the support of Ofﬁcinæ Verdi, which uses Gold Standard credits 
• c onsolidating the central steering of the international  to the Board of Directors of all relevant LEs. The policy 
Material topics
Reinforcing compliance Network.   gCaionmedp tlhiaronucgeh c tuhletu dreev ealnodp mPeenotp olef  aD pervoeglroapmmmeen ftor biogash parso adlusoct eiosnta fbolris dhoemd ae sWtihc iustslaegbelo iwni nKge nMyaan.agerial 
The Gold Standard is supported by WWF as it is the most rigorous 
UniCredit is committed to building and strengthening a  Forum at Group and local level. This Forum, which 
Compliance is a prerequisite to the legitimacy of   Risk Presidium common culture of compliagnloceb aalc rcoesrst ioﬁucra otriognan sistaatniodna.r d for carbiosn i novfofslveet dp rino jceacstes.s of Serious Reports, periodically 
our business, therefore adherence to laws and regulations  Risk Assessment and controls are executed according to  In working towards this goal, we reinforced our Tone from  monitors main trends, indicators and actions aimed 
INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
is key to a sustainable business. a 3-year plan taking into account new regulations coming  the Top programme with a strong commitment from all  at enhancing awareness of the process and culture of 
Digitalization and innovation
Compliance culture is essential to spread awareness  into	force	as	well	as	identified	riskiest	areas	such	a	s senior managers in spreading the importance of business  reporting misconduct.
Value to customer
of what is or is not good to protect our clients and our  Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Financial Sanctions (FS).  ethics	and	risk	culture	with	a	specific	focus	on	Custome	r
Group’s reputation. The plan includes an updated version of the controls  Protection and Anti-Financial Crime.   Digital Transformation
At UniCredit we do not tolerate any misconduct and  catalogue to cover all relevant compliance areas. We  In 2019 we also continued the Compliance for the Group  We	increased	the	usage	of	Artificial	Intelligence	(AI)	to	 LEAN AND SOLID BANK
non-compliant behaviour. also rolled out new controls on Whistleblowing, ICT  programme which aims at increasing proximity between  improve key compliance processes, advisory services and  Bank solidity
compliance and outsourcing. Compliance and Business through the regular discussion  controls. We developed different solutions to increase 
Lean and transparent organization
Regulations are part of our operational environment and  of compliance subjects2 at senior management level.   detection capabilities of possible suspicious transactions 
we must comply with them while remaining focused on  We also run our OFAC1 Compliance Programme. This  This involved classroom workshops (approximately  or misconducts.
PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
our customers’ needs.  is based on guidance from US Authorities in FS and  18,900 attendees in 2019 across the Group), an education 
other regulatory standards and guidelines. It is a  campaign addressed to all employees, a dedicated  Finally, in 2019 we developed a group-wide IT solution  Employees' development
In accordance with our Team 23 strategic plan, UniCredit  major	Group-wide	and	bank-specific	remediation	and	 compliance culture Ambassadors PrCoogvraemr amned3  Introduction: UniCrfeodr	imt Sa.npa.Agi.ng	advisory	activities	more	efficiently	to	be	 Diversity and inclusion
Compliance function enhances compliance as a tool for  enhancement programme to:  and continuous communication. Sorter pages: UniCredit Sim.pp.Ale.mented in 2020.
managing risk and actions to mitigate non-compliance  • s trengthen our policies, procedures and controls related  In	2019	a	first	group-wide	CGomrapplhiainc cdee	Dvealyo	tpomoke	pnlta acen	d composition: Mercurio GP
ETHICS
risks more effectively, in particular with regard to  to FS  across 13 countries with 14 plenary sessioPnrsi,n tth: eC dPiZre Sc.tp .A. (Bergamo)
Fair business behavior
Anti-Financial Crime (AFC).  • p revent and detect any future violations of applicable  involvement of branches in 7 countries and ad hoc April 2020
FOCUS
Business ethics
laws. initiatives in CIB and UniCredit Services with an overall  Anti-corruption5
reach oTfh me oInret ethgarant 5ed0 ,0R0e0p ocrotl laenagdu Seus.p Cpolellmeaegnute sh waveere b een madeU naivCarieldaibt ldeo aets  wnowt wal.luonwi carcetdsi otgf rcoourrpu.peution and prohibits 
UniCredit compliance pillars involved together witahn tdhe a slseon iaorv amilaanbalgee fmore ndto iwn nelvoeandt sb y activattihnegm t hine  aQnRy  wcoadye o rb feolromw,. whether direct or indirect. This  SYSTEMIC TRENDS
FOCUS
Financial Sanction Forum on Customer Protection, FS and AML.    approach is established in our Global Policy and Global  Cyber security
UniCredit’s 2019 Compliance Plan, approved by the Board  The dynamic framework of the sanction arena led to  Operational Regulation on Anti-Bribery and Corruption  Climate change
of Directors is based on six strategic pillars.  the need for the development of a Sanction Business  5 web-based courses4 and 7 classroom workshops on  which were updated in 2018/2019 and implemented in  Demograﬁc change
Customer Protection and AFC were rolled out throughout  all relevant legal entities.
Forum. Business, Compliance, Legal and Risk functions 
2019 COMPLIANCE PLAN the year. 
are regularly involved in dedicated meetings where  You may also request a copy from: UniCredit - Group SustainabTihliet ya nPtiia-czozarr uGpateio An ualcetnivtiit,y 2 f0o1cu5s4e sM oinla tnh,e I taarleyas  POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
they	review	corporate	transactions.	This	confirms	the	 particularly exposed to the risk of corruption, such as job 
We are fully committed to fosteringe c-ommapill:ia gnrto buephsauvsiotauirn ability@unicredit.eu Positive impact on society
attention and awareness of our senior management  offers, gifts and business hospitalities, management of 
in each employee; at UniCredit the mandatory compliance 
Governance Risk Regulatory Compliance People Digital  in ensuring a timely response to our customers and  third parties, Mergers & Acquisitions.
Presidium changes culture DevelopmentTransformation training is a requirement to access variable compensation, 
mitigating the exposure to risks of sanctions.
if any.
In 2019, UniCredit employees received over 11,000 
hours of anti-corruption training.
In 2019 UniCredit employees received 521,164 
  Regulatory changes  hours of compliance training.
Staying abreast of regulatory changes and promptly 
identifying UniCredit’s obligations is essential for the 
Group, which is why we monitor forthcoming regulations 
before triggering the necessary implementation at  2.  Anti-Money Laundering, MiFID II, Financial Sanctions, Conflicts of Interest, Anti-bribery & Corruption and Whistleblowing, General Data Protection Regulation 
(GDPR), Financial Benchmark and Antitrust.
The plan includes the strategic priorities and the main  various levels. Over the year, Compliance continued to: 
3. Refer to 2018 Integrated Report for more information.
initiatives implemented in 2019. 4. The roll out of 1 of the web-based training courses in the LEs will be completed by Q12020.
5. Refer to the Supplement - Risk Management and Compliance section for more information.
2019 Integrated Report
1.	Office	of	Foreign	Asset	Control.
28 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 29