Report structure Index
UniCredit has prepared this document in compliance with the requirements of Art. 3 and 4 of the Legislative Decree 254/2016,  Chief Executive Officer’s Message    4
which implements European Directive 2014/95/EU in Italy, and is part of UniCredit’s principled effort to further develop its 
compliance	with	the	European	Commission’s	Guidelines	on	non-financial	reporting	and	advance	understanding	of	all	aspects	of	its	
Ethics and respect    14
business.
The Integrated Report (the “Report”) has been approved by the Board of Directors of UniCredit SpA on March 5th, 2020 and has been  Our Purpose & Identity   18
produced by the Group Sustainability & Foundation function, in collaboration with the Strategy and M&A function. Since 2017, in line 
Our Value Creation over time  20
with	the	requirements	of	Legislative	Decree	254/2016,	a	specific	policy	was	adopted	to	define	the	roles,	responsibilities,	activities	
Governance   22
and	controls	and	to	coordinate	the	flow	of	information	between	the	parent	company,	regions,	divisions	and	legal	entities	in	relation	
to the process of preparing the Consolidated Non-Financial Statement (“NFS”). As foreseen by Article 5 of the Legislative Decree  Risk Management and Compliance  24
254/2016,	this	document	constitutes	a	separate	report	marked	with	a	specific	heading,	to	allow	its	reconciliation	with	the	NFS	
required by the regulation. Our Business Environment   30
Business Model in action  32
The Report should be considered in its entirety, including its Supplement, which is here enclosed or available in the Sustainability 
section of our website (www.unicreditgroup.eu) and contains a number of essential indicators and underlying quantitative data.
Our Strategy   34
The guidelines adopted for the preparation of the sustainability information included in the 2019 Integrated Report, including its 
Stakeholder Engagement  36
Supplement, are the “GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards” and the “Financial Services Sector Disclosures,” issued, respectively, 
in 2016 and 2013 by the GRI - Global Reporting Initiative. The performance indicators reported in accordance to the guidelines  Strategic plan  46
adopted are included in the “GRI Content Index” section. The principles contained in the International <IR> Framework, published in      Transform 2019   47
December 2013 by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), were also used as reporting framework.     Team 23 50
Figures and information relating to the Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 classes of greenhouse gas emissions have been prepared in  Grow and strengthen client franchise  51
accordance with “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate, Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition, 2004)” as well as  Transform and maximise productivity  54
the “GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards.” Disciplined risk management & controls  55
Capital and balance sheet management  57
The	information	in	the	Report	addresses	the	issues	that	were	identified	as	material	and	their	associated	indicators,	which	reflect	
the	main	economic,	environmental	and	social	impacts	of	the	Group	or	could	have	a	substantial	influence	on	the	views	and	decisions	 Sustainability as part of UniCredit DNA  57
of its stakeholders. The materiality analysis, updated in 2019, was fundamental to the Report and determined the topics to be    Capitals  64
reported on, in line with stakeholders’ needs. Following the analysis of the relevant topics indicated in Article 3 of the Legislative 
    Financial Capital  64
Decree	254/2016,	the	use	of	water	was	not	considered	significant	for	the	representation	in	this	NFS.
Human Capital   66
The content of this Report refers to the year 2019 and, in particular, to the activities of UniCredit during the year, unless otherwise  Social and relationship Capital  70
H
stated.	Figures	relating	to	previous	years	are	provided	for	comparison	and	refer	mainly	to	the	2018	fiscal	year.	 HIG Intellectual Capital   Business ethics 84
Concerning the reporting perimeter, in line with previous years the legal entities consolidated on a line by line basis by UniCredit SpA  Natural Capital   88
have been analyzed in order to identify the relevant companies and ensure the Report would provide a proper understanding of the  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)  Cyber security 94
Group’s activities, development, performance and relevant impacts. In particular, with reference to year 2019, data and information  Value to customer
related to FinecoBank S.p.A. and Ocean Breeze Energy GmbH & Co. KG have been excluded from the reporting perimeter, following 
GRI Content Index and UN Global Compact  Fair business behavior  102
the deconsolidation of FinecoBank S.p.A. and the sale to Macquarie Infrastructure and Real Assets of the 100% of Ocean Breeze  Climate change
Energy	GmbH	&	Co.	KG,	finalized	on	May	10,	2019	and	in	December	2019	respectively.	This	new	reporting	perimeter	represents	98	
percent of Group’s FTEs. Community contribution and initiatives in support of Communities included in the “Social and relationship  rsReport of the External Auditors   113
e Lean and transparent organisation
Capital” chapter include data and information related to UniCredit Foundation - Fondazione di studio in onore del Cavaliere del  d
ol
Lavoro	Ugo	Foscolo	(the	“UniCredit	Foundation”),	not	included	in	the	perimeter	of	the	consolidated	financial	statements.	The	data	 hSupplement 
e Bank solidity
reported in the paragraph of the Supplement “Compliance - Whistleblowing” refers to the legal entities currently monitored and  k
a  Determination and distribution of Value Added  S.2
considered	relevant	by	Group	Compliance.	For	figures	related	to	staffing	and	calculations	of	the	Value	Added,	the	perimeter	of	the	 st
Report	corresponds	to	the	2019	consolidated	financial	statements,	unless	otherwise	indicated.	Any	conditions	that	may	limit	the	 or 	 Main	partnerships	and	affiDliiagtitioalnissa	tion and innovation S.4
scope of the data are clearly disclosed throughout the Report. e f  Selection of 2019 awards  S.8
c
n    Governance  Positive impact on society S. 10
To ensure reliability, the Report includes directly measurable quantities and limits the use of estimates as much as possible.  eva  Risk Management and Compliance  S.16
Potential	estimates	are	based	on	the	best	available	information	or	spot	checks.	Restatements	of	previously	published	figures	that	 Rel ESmtapkloeyheoelsd' eemr Epnowgaegrmemenetnt  S.30
have been provided for comparison are clearly indicated as such.
Human Capital  S.32
This Report has been externally assured by an independent assurance provider in accordance with the criteria established in the  Social and relationship CaDpivitearsl ity and inclusion S.48
principle “ISAE 3000 Revised”. Its conclusions regarding the compliance of the information provided with Article 3, paragraph 10, of 
  Natural Capital  S.54
the Legislative Decree 254/2016 are set out in a separate external assurance report. The procedures followed for the assurance of  Demographic change
the NFS are disclosed in the “Report of the External Auditors”, included in this Report. M
U
During 2019, we made further steps towards the completion of our path of integrating more and more sustainability into our  EDI In	order	to	guide	and	support	the	reading	of	our	Integrated	Report,	through	the	icons	here	below	you	can	find	a	visual	
M
business plans and strategies, in line with the strategic sustainability targets announced last November 2019, and that we  representation of the clusters and the related material topics that are presented in our materiality matrix. The same icons 
plan to achieve with the involvement of all the corporate functions and under the guidance of the Board of Directors and senior  aArDe VaAlNsoCE rDeported in the last page of our cover, whUicnhi Ccarend bite  Aoppepnreoda cahnd used as a reference while readingH tIhGHeL rYe ApDoVrAt.N CED
management.	For	the	main	targets	and	commitments,	for	the	description	of	the	strategic	approach	to	relevant	non-financial	issues	 On the right page of every chapter the referenced material topics are visually represented through the same icons.
as well as for the principal generated or perceived risks in relation to those issues and how they are managed, please refer to the 
relevant Chapters of this Report. Clusters
With	reference	to	climate	change,	both	scientific	evidence	and	increasing	shareholder	awareness	have	made	taking	action	a	priority	
INNOVATION LEAN AND PEOPLE ETHICS SYSTEMIC POSITIVE
for UniCredit. Under such circumstances, UniCredit has adopted the recommendations issued by the Task Force on Climate-Related 
FOR CUSTOMER SOLID BANK DEVELOPMENT TRENDS IMPACT
Financial Disclosures (TCFD). For further information concerning the actions undertaken from UniCredit in this regard, please refer to  ON SOCIETY
chapter Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) of the Integrated Report. 
2 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 3