Our Strategy Our Strategy
→ Stakeholder Engagement → Stakeholder Engagement
Thanks also to this reinforced and more reliable  in dedicated interviews. During these one-to-one  It was extended to 10 additional European markets  key to innovation and growth. This attitude can only 
methodology, we have been able to share these  meetings, managers assessed each material topic  and UniCredit has committed to approving €1billion  strengthen the Group’s reputation and help it to 
results at senior management level and in several  from a presidium, investment and managerial focus  of total financing by 2023. The project also provides  attract and retain key talents. 
meetings of the Board of Directors and the Corporate  point of view, defining a unique UniCredit approach  financial education and as at 2019 about 38,600 
Governance, Nomination and Sustainability  on such issues. By applying this new process, we  students were supported in 300 schools and more  All these actions are a fundamental part of our 
Committee (CGN&S),2 thus providing a complete  wanted to underline how fundamental materiality  than 2 million of training were provided.4 sustainability strategy and demonstrate how 
overview of ESG topics and our sustainability  analysis is to the strategic definition of UniCredit’s  We will also continue to invest in UniCredit  sustainability is part of our way of thinking and a key 
approach. targets. Foundation that contributed over €5.6 million in  component of our business model. We must never 
2019 towards social needs, including study and  forget that the way in which we achieve results is just 
Indeed, 2019 was a defining year for UniCredit in  As announced last year, a great deal of attention was  research.  as important as the results themselves. It is essential 
terms of approach to sustainability which was more  given to two material topics in particular: Business  that we always: Do the right thing!
deeply integrated into our business strategies.  ethics and Positive impact on society. The successful  Diversity and inclusion has always been a focus 
Sustainability is part of our Group’s DNA and  results achieved with Transform 2019 have led  for UniCredit. In order to further enhance our  We believe that fully integrating our sustainability 
a key component of our business model. Such  us to confirm our commitment to those material  commitment on this topic, UniCredit will work with  approach into our business strategies allows us to 
commitment, together with the growing global  issues also for this year. Furthermore, UniCredit has  different associations to launch an initiative for the  respond promptly to the risks and opportunities 
focus on topics such as climate change, was a  broadened its focus to encompass topics related to  European banking sector. This consists in setting and  arising from material issues.
strong driving factor in this transformation, further  climate change, diversity and inclusion in its new  monitoring specific objectives so that banks increase 
heightened by an increased attention on the part of  strategic plan. the proportion of women and minorities among  In addition, as illustrated in the following pages, 
regulators and institutional investors. By virtue also  their employees: we believe that including different  an attentive assessment of our initiatives and their 
of observations received by the CGN&S Committee,  Regarding Business ethics, Ethics and Respect: do the  perspectives helps improve processes and behaviours  positive impacts on society has allowed UniCredit 
these signals were promptly detected by UniCredit  right thing! are the values and guiding principle on which  and creating a positive and inclusive workplace is  to actively contribute to the achievement of the UN 
which quickened its pace in addressing ESG matters,  the behaviour and decisions of our bank are founded.  Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
as demonstrated in our new strategic plan Team 23. Several initiatives have been undertaken during the 
Dialogue tools with stakeholders
Thanks to the effective sponsorship and direct  last year giving proof of the strong commitment to our 
involvement of the CEO and senior management  values. In the framework of the new strategic plan Team 
Channels: Key facts
team, in November 2019 a process involving the  23, these values combine with underlying assumptions 
Corporate Investment Banking, Risk Management,  on sustainability to continuously strengthen our  Customer satisfaction assessment
More than 
Human Capital, Investor Relations and Identity &  approach, as demonstrated by the targets disclosed in  Brand reputation assessment 400,000 clients 
Communication (among other functions) resulted in  the announcement of November 2019 on three main 
prospects
a press conference and a dedicated call for investors  material topics: CUSTOMERS Mystery shopping and   
interviewed for 
and financial analysts in which the commitments and  • Climate change Instant feedback our customer 
targets highlighting our sustainable strategy were  • Positive impact on society satisfaction surveys
Focus groups, workshops, seminars
communicated.  • Diversity and inclusion.
People Survey of professional engagement
UniCredit continued to leverage the materiality  With regard to Climate change, we will work closely  More than 
matrix as a tool to support business strategy. In 2019,  with our customers in the transition to a low-carbon  Internal clients’ p erceptions of headquarters services 70,000 page views 
in order to update the analysis, together with our  emission economy. In fact, we have confirmed the  COLLEAGUES of the communication of our new 
Group Intranet Portal
usual stakeholder listening sources, we also applied,  decision for the complete decommissioning of  strategic plan Team 23 on our 
Group intranet
as we did the year before, information sourced by the  thermal coal mining projects for energy production by  Departmental online  communities
Datamaran tool. This allowed us, through external  2023 and are committed both to increasing exposure 
sources, to investigate the main laws and directives  to the renewable energy sector and supporting the  Quarterly webcasts and conference calls to present results More than 450 meetings 
that impact the financial sector in all the countries  growth of energy efficiency loans to customers. INVESTORS/ 37 roadshow days
One-on-one and group  meetings, calls and   
where the Group operates, to analyse the latest news  We aim to achieve Top5 league table position in  SHAREHOLDERS with institutional, retail and 
on issues related to the financial sector on online  EMEA combined Green Bonds & ESG-linked loans.  Shareholders’ meeting socially responsible investors
media and social networks such as Twitter, and to  Moreover, we will continue to reduce our 
benchmark our report versus reports published by  environmental impact by cutting greenhouse gas  Proactive engagement
 
other banks. emissions, among the targets for the Team 23  contribution 
and 
REGULATORS One-on-one and group meetings, calls
strategy, as well as committing to source all our 
to the debate
 
The analysis was therefore strengthened and as a  electricity consumption from renewable energy.3
on the regulatory framework
result of the above-mentioned announcement on ESG 
targets, sustainability topics are now increasingly  Regarding Positive impact on society, the 
Surveys More than 400,000 
integrated in our business strategy.  Social Impact Banking (SIB) project successfully 
COMMUNITIES followers
The analysis of the internal relevance of single topics  disbursed more than €100 million in supporting   on our 
Social Media social media
was conducted directly with senior management  microentrepreneurs and social enterprises in Italy. 
2. Refer to the Governance chapter for more information.
3. In the bank’s buildings in Italy, Germany and Austria. 4. Refer to Social and relationship Capital chapter for more information on Social Impact Banking project.
38 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 39