Strategic Plan Our Strategy
→ Strategic Plan 
Transform 2019
Since the Transform 2019 strategic plan launched in December 2016, UniCredit has further 
confirmed its vision. We are a simple, successful, Pan-European Commercial Bank, with a fully 
MATERIAL 
plugged in Corporate and Investment Bank (CIB), and with our new strategic plan Team 23 
TOPICS
we intend to continue building on our existing competitive advantages: our unique Western,  CAPITALS
Central and Eastern European network, the strengthening of our position as the go-to bank for 
Social and
Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and of our extensive and growing client franchise. Financial Human relationship Intellectual Natural
We are proactive in capturing commercial  perfect starting point for our new strategic plan: 
opportunities whilst keeping a tight rein on risk,  Team 23. 
ADOPT LEAN BUT STRONG
execution and cost control.
The emissions related to the printing and distribution of the 2019 Annual Report aCnOdR APcOcRoAuTnEt CsE NTRE
UniCredit is a Pan-European winner, with our 16  5
STRENGTHEN KPIs to drive performance 
Ethics and Respect: Do the right thing! is the  millions1 clients across Europe trusting us with their  and the 2019 IntAeNgDra OtePdT IRMeISpEo rCtA hPaITvAeL b een compensated with thSeT RsuApTpEoGrItC o f Ofﬁcinæ Verdi, whicha nuds eacsc Gouonldta bSitlaitnydard credits  Material topics
slogan that represents the values and principles  banking business. We benefit from the local coverage  gained throRueginhfo trhcee  cdaepviteallopment of a programme forP bIiLoLgAaRsS production for domestic Luesaangeer  siunp Kpoernt yfaun.ctions and
on which our banking activity is based and which  of 13 commercial banks1 throughout our CIB and  Capital optimisationT hacet iGonosld Standard is supported by WWF as it is the most rigorous  transparent cost allocation
global certiﬁcation standard for carbon offset projects.
drove us to achieve our Transform 2019 results,  international banks network, and are ranked among 
IMPROVE 
thanks also to the great effort of all our people  the top 3 banks by assets2 in Italy, Germany and 
ASSET QUALITY MAXIMIZE COMMERCIAL  INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
who proved to be One Team, One UniCredit. The  Austria, and first in the CEE on the consolidated basis. Increasing coverage ratio BANK VALUE Digitalization and innovation
of bad loans Tailored strategies
Value to customer
Strong risk discipline Synergies and cross-selling
Italy GaAnuedrsm traiany  bAle wunsedilniln-edgsi sav: ecoutrrsi vifitieydA  Wgthoee  a-Ertueo tr hobe paenakn fo r  TORPAENRASTFIONRGM M ODEL LBEaAnkN s AoNlidDit SyOLID BANK
CEE  Mittelstand
and CIB Digitalisation and process redesign Lean and transparent organization
Transform 2019 Improved efﬁciency and customer focus
PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
Pan European footprint
Employees' development
Commercial Banks When we launched Transform 201C9o bvearc ka nind D Inetcreomdubcetri on: UniCrtehdei th eSa.pd.wA.inds that the industry has faced for the  Diversity and inclusion
International branches and  2016,3 aimed at transforming the operaStoinrgte mr poadgeel,s : UniCredit ySe.pa.rAs. 2016 to 2019. Nevertheless, together with 
representative offices
maximising commercial banGkra vpahluice  daenvde elonphmanecnint ga nodu rc ompositoiounr :p Mruedrecnutriiaol  GinPitial assumptions, we took a series 
ETHICS
capital position, risk management and goPvrienrtn:a CnPcZe ,S .p.A. (Bergaomf od)ecisive actions to face unforeseen events which 
Fair business behavior
we made conservative assumptions. Yet even  April 2020 enabled us to deliver our targets in a worse-than-
Business ethics
such prudent planning could not have foreseen  expected macro environment: 
The Integrated Report and Supplement have been made available at www.unicreditgroup.eu
and also available for download by activating the QR code below. SYSTEMIC TRENDS
Acceleration of balance sheet de-risking:   Cyber security
Acceleration of Non-Core portfolio run-off (self-funded full rundown of non-core by 2021 vs 2025  Climate change
originally set) Demograﬁc change
BTP portfolio reduction
You maIny tarlsaog rreoquuepst  ea xcoppoy sfruorme:  UdenciCrereadseit - Group Sustainability Piazza Gae Aulenti, 20154 Milan, Italy POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
e-mail: groupsustainability@unicredit.eu Positive impact on society
The mid-market  As demonstrated by our   Additional cost optimisation:
strong position and our clients’ 
corporate clients in  trust, we are the second  Further cost reduction vs initial 2019 target (2019 costs at €9.9bn vs Transform 2019 target 
Europe are the backbone of  largest corporate lender  €10.6bn, 84,245 FTEs vs Transform 2019 target 87,000 FTEs) 
the European economy in Continental EuropeB
A. Commercial/gross loans by country. Strong capital position:
B. Data as of 3Q19 based on publicly available information. Transparent disclosure of regulatory impacts, starting from Capital Markets Day (CMD) held in 
December 2017 
Our CIB is fully plugged in and focused on  product offer and ability to deliver significant 
supporting the Group’s clients, proving our strong  cross-selling and synergy across the bank. Disposal of non-strategic assets (Fineco, Mediobanca, Ocean Breeze and selected real estate)
1. F igures restated assuming new Group perimeter. New Group perimeter assumes full deconsolidation of Turkey and disposal of Fineco, Mediobanca and Ocean Breeze.
2. D ata as of 4Q19, where available (otherwise as of 3Q19), based on available public data. For Germany, only private banks, for CEE compared to Erste, KBC, Intesa Sanpaolo, 
OTP, RBI, SocGen, UC data excl. Yapi pro quota, for Austria ranking on single entities only possible on the basis of annual figures: FY18 latest figures available. 3. Refer to 2016, 2017 and 2018 Integrated Reports for more information. 2019 Integrated Report
46 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 47