Our Strategy Our Strategy
→ Strategic Plan → Strategic Plan 
Team 23 
Team 23 is our new four-year strategic plan covering  possible without the great UniCredit team. The 
the years 2020 to 2023 launched on 3 December  unwavering commitment of the whole team and their 
Grow and strengthen 
2019 during our CMD. The plan owes its name to  effort to really walk the talk led to the success of  MATERIAL 
TOPICS
the previous Transform 2019 three-year plan, the  Transform 2019 and therefore to the name of the new  client franchise 
successful execution of which would not have been  business plan Team 23.
While Transform 2019 was primarily about restructuring  -  a single group-wide client service model dedicated 
and reshaping the bank by putting emphasis on capital  to SMEs, leveraging our proprietary CRM tool and 
strengthening and asset quality improvements, Team 23  digital platform across all geographies
is about building up and further strengthening our client  -  a CIB platform fully plugged into our commercial 
GROW AND  TRANSFORM  DISCIPLINED RISK  CAPITAL AND  franchise thanks to more efficient and streamlined  banks. Our targeted CIB offer facilitates SME 
The emissions related to the printing and distribution of the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 
STRENGTHEN  AND MAXIMISE  MANAGEMENT &  BALANCE SHEET  products and services and to an improved customer  access to global capital markets and leverages 
and the 2019 Integrated Report have been compensated with the support of Ofﬁcinæ Verdi, which uses Gold Standard credits 
CLIENT FRANCHISE PRODUCTIVITY CONTROLS MANAGEMENT experience. We will continue to focus on asset quality  best-in-class CIB expertise. Material topics
gained through the development of a programme for biogas production for domestic usage in Kenya.
and to ensure that we maintain very strong capital, now 
The Gold Standard is supported by WWF as it is the most rigorous 
from a position of strength, thanks to the achievements  Moreover several initiatives have been undertaken 
SUSTAINABILITY of Transform 2019. global certiﬁcation standard for carbtoon  soufpfspeot rpt rsomjeactlsl .and medium enterprises. 
Alongside the customised insurance products 
INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
In order to better understand the transition to the  developed in joint ventures with our partners, we 
Digitalization and innovation
new approach embedded in Team 23, the first pillar  are continuing to work with Alibaba.7 The Easy 
Value to customer
The underlying assumption is Sustainability, showing  These investments include both dedicated  can be explained by some selected examples: Export initiative provides support and value-added 
how in UniCredit value creation means more than just  expenses on cyber security and data protection as  • Customer experience services to the organisations that want to go 
generating financial values. It also means integrating  well as all key developments which are to embed  • Go-to bank for SMEs  international. In addition, the agreement with SACE  LEAN AND SOLID BANK
sustainability into our business strategies in terms  security by design. • Enhanced service model for individuals Simest, part of Cassa Depositi e Prestiti Group,  Bank solidity
of human capital, society and environment. This  • Growth engines goes in this direction. Our proprietary CRM tool, 
TEAM 23 KEY TARGETS IN 2023: Lean and transparent organization
commitment was shown in November 2019 with the  B.Link,8 supports our people in the commercial 
announcement of a series of sustainability targets fully  TARGET  Customer Experience network leveraging the Group’s large trove of data 
2019 2023 PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
integrated into business strategies. to help relationship managers provide real time 
RoTE: 9.20% >8% We renewed our focus on customer satisfaction and  answers to client needs. We provide SMEs with the  Employees' development
From a financial perspective, as was Transform  service quality moving from a strCoonvge cr oasntd e fInfitcrioednucyc tion: UniCraecdciet sSs.p t.oA .we.trade,9 a blockchain based payment  Diversity and inclusion
2019, Team 23 is a pragmatic plan with tangible  Costs: €9.9bn €10.2bn de-risking effort during Transform 201S9o, rttoewr apradgse as : UniCredit Ss.yps.Ate.m. 
actions based on conservative assumptions. The  focus on strengthening andG rgarpohwicin dge cvuesltoopmmeern bta asned  composition: Mercurio GP
ETHICS
below represented targets were set considering a  Gross NPE ratio: 5% <3.8% with Team 23 through: Print: CPZ S.p.A. (BergaTmhois) is an extremely simple application for the 
Fair business behavior
framework characterized by still negative interest  -  Customer experience considered as key driver Afoprr ial l2l 020 efficient, cost-effective and secure execution of 
rates impacting on the Bank’s profitability, limited  Tangible Equity, EoP: €53bn €60bn strategic initiatives national and international trading transactions. By  Business ethics
macroeconomic growth and regulatory headwinds. -  ClienTt hsea tIinstfeagctriaotne dm Reeapsourrte da nadt  cShuapnpnleeml aenndt  have been madele avvearailgaibnlge  saut cwhw suwc.ucensicsrfeudl ibtgursoinueps.esu initiatives, we 
CET1 MDA buffer: 300 bps between 200 and 250 bps touchpoint levels waintdh ianl scou satvoamilearb jloeu fronre dyosw ton ldoraivde b y activatainreg  ntohwe  QeRn hcaondcei nbge loouwr .approach through a dedicated  SYSTEMIC TRENDS
In order to achieve our new targets, Team 23  process optimisation   End-to-End (E2E) room10 focused on reviewing our  Cyber security
will be supported by investments in process  Underlying net profit: €4.7bn €5bn -  Commitment to improve competitive position for  dedicated service model and delivering a better 
Climate change
optimisation and IT. As far as IT is concerned,  Strategic Net Promoter Score (NPS)6 at group level customer experience. 
Demograﬁc change
investments will be increased by 17% to €900m  Capital distribution:A 40% 50%
on a yearly basis. We partially anticipated 
2023 GOALS - SME
investment needs5 for Team 23, spending more  Value creation for  €16bnB, €8bn in tangible  YSotur menayg atlhsoe rneq ouuesrt  pa ocospiyt iforonm a: Usn GiCore-dtito -  bGraonupk  Sustainability Piazza Gae Aulenti, 2015W4E UMAilan, ItalyCEE POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
n.m. equity plus €8bn in 
than initially budgeted in the last three years with  shareholders:  capital distribution  for SMEs  e-mail: groupsustainability@unicreRdevite.enuues, €bn 1.7 0.6 Positive impact on society
a growing focus on cyber security and productivity. 
Over the Team 23 life span, we will spend a total of  A.  Based on underlying net profit. Capital distribution for FY19-FY22: 30%  We are the go-to bank for European SMEs, a 
Loans, €bn 40 13
cash dividend and 10% share buyback; for FY23: 40% cash dividend and 
€9.4bn in IT or more than €2.3bn a year, €900m of  fast-growing segment in both Western Europe and 
10% share buyback. Proposal of share buybacks subject to regulatory 
which is for changing the bank projects.  approval and AGM authorisation. CEE, and we will continue to enhance our strengths  Customer journey NPS 
B. In Team 23 time horizon. by leveraging key success factors such as: increase, points >5 >5
-  longstanding advantage, thanks to well-established 
A. Commercial Banking Italy, Germany and Austria.
local commercial banks
5. Refer to Intellectual Capital chapter for more information.
6. Refer to Social and relationship Capital chapter for more information.
7. Refer to 2018 Integrated Report for more information.
8. Refer to 2018 Integrated Report for more information.
2019 Integrated Report
9. Refer to 2018 Integrated Report for more information.
10. See also Transform and maximise productivity section in this Report.
50 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 51