Our Strategy Our Strategy
→ Strategic Plan  → Strategic Plan 
Enhanced service model   Growth engines CIB is fully plugged in our Commercial Banking Divisions  In UniCredit core countries and throughout  MATERIAL 
TOPICS
for individuals and is an established leader in our core geographies.  Europe, CIB is the partner of choice for its clients’ 
UniCredit’s CEE franchise is the largest and most  increasingly sophisticated demand for corporate 
We aim at improving the customer journey with  diversified in the region. We aim at reinforcing  The CIB Division will remain a profitable growth engine  banking and transaction services, structured 
an increased and seamless convergence of online  and further exploiting this leadership position and  for the Group, confirming its market leadership. finance, capital markets and investment products, 
and offline channels. We will also continue to  economic potential to deliver sustainable returns  offering local expertise as well as international 
redesign the network footprint in Western Europe  and further improvement in cost efficiency. reach and accompanying our clients globally. 
Throughout the Team 23 plan, CIB will further grow 
by changing the mix of branch models introducing 
in loans, debt capital markets and trade finance in 
new flexible formats, integrated with digital  The CEE division continues to be an important  CIB is recognised as a Trade Finance Powerhouse 
Europe, serving 1,500 multinationals and key financial 
channels and fully focused on advisory.  growth engine for the Group: several initiatives  in Western, Central and Eastern Europe and is at 
institutions while delivering its full product offer to 
have been launched to ensure sustainable business  the forefront of innovation in instant and faster 
SMEs, Corporate, Private Banking, Wealth Management 
Our mass market services model will continue to  growth and to add value to our unique franchise in  payments thanks to its prominent position in the 
and Financial Institution customers across the Group.
evolve thanks to a mix of integrated channels: the region.  digital transformation of financial services in line 
The emissions related to the printing and distribution of the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 
•  an improved unique mobile banking app with a  A strong effort is dedicated to the client focus approach  with customer needs. 
and the 2019 Integrated Report have been compensated with the support of Ofﬁcinæ Verdi, which uses Gold Standard credits 
single look and feel across the Group  together with constant cost discipline and focus on risk 
On the Corporate side, the current working  Material topics
•  more direct customer sales and services,11  capital (WoCa) product offer will be upgraded in  cugltauinree. dC ItBh rmoueegths  trheael  dceliveenlto npemedesn wt oitfh a r eparlo agnrda mhomliset ifco r biogas2 p0r2o3d uGcOtiAonLS f o- rC dIBomestic usage in Kenya.
The Gold Standard is supported by WWF as it is the most rigorous 
integrated customer management via remote  solutions - such as WoCa which will be further enhanced 
order to achieve a fully-fledged WoCa product 
global certiﬁcation standard for carbon offCsleietn pt-rdorjievcetns .
centres and digital channels. We will also support  line across CEE.  - to harness synergies among the Group’s business  revenues CAGRA 3%
targeted growth in selected segments by using  divisions.
INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
data analytics. We have successfully launched a  In addition, the overall commercial focus on SMEs  A. CAGR refers to 2018-2023 period.
Digitalization and innovation
project to identify affluent clients in the midst of  and multinationals will be strengthened while the 
Value to customer
our mass-market segments in order to offer them  focus on maximising synergies within the Group 
better targeted products and services through Cross-border activity will remain, thanks 
•  the evolution of our service model with a  to an increasing number of international customers  CIB Positioning LEAN AND SOLID BANK
renewed focus on the conversion of deposits  and our fully plugged in CIB.  Bank solidity
into Asset under Management (AuM) would be  So far, this model has already enabled 72% of CIB’s total revenues to be client-driven Lean and transparent organization
possible not only for the mass market, but with a 
On the Retail side, CEE will continue its 
view also to increasing our wealth management  digitalisation journey, increasing the potential  n.1 in All Bonds in EUR in  n.1 in EMEA Corporate 
PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
and private banking business, strengthening  of digital channels and rationalising back office  Italy, Germany and Austria  Loans in EUR
coverage and enhancing our value proposition  processes.11  1 2 Employees' development
thanks to additional investments in products and  n.  in SyndiCcoavteedr  aLnoda nIns troduction: UniCredit S.p.A. n.  for number  Diversity and inclusion
services, by leveraging the group-wide platform  Actions to simplify the product offer will also be  in EUR in Italy, AusStorirat earn pda ges: UniCredit S.p.A. of transactions in 
n.2
and using data analytics. undertaken, contributing to the creation of solid  A CEE, Graph iicn  dGeevremloapnmyent and composition: MercuriEoM GEPA Bonds in EUR
s ETHICS
bases for the simplification and digitalisation of  e Print: CPZ S.p.A. (Bergamo)
bl Moreover, it is recognised as a leading player in Europe, as confirmed by several awards  Fair business behavior
Regarding our product catalogue, we will continue  processes. A specific focus on Consumer Finance  a April 2020
T received in 2019: Business ethics
to leverage the innovative payment solutions  will allow us to strengthen our market position  e 
u
introduced among the first movers, such as Apple  in Consumer Lending throughout the region,  agThe I•n B teegrsatte dS Reerpvoirct aen dP Sruopvpliedmeern to hf aavlle T braedeen  Fminaadnec ea vsaeirlvaibclees a Gt lwobwawlly.u, ninic Wredeitsgrtoeuprn.eu Europe, in 
Pay, Samsung Pay, Google Pay and Alipay.12 particularly in Hungary, the Czech Republic and  e CEE and a l1so0 a vcaoilaubnlet froire dsownload by activating the QR code below. SYSTEMIC TRENDS
L  and in  including Italy and Austria (Euromoney Trade Finance Survey 2020), 
Slovakia where we will initially concentrate our  B    Cyber security
2023 GOALS - INDIVIDUALS effort, leveraging, for example, an enhanced  CI Transaction Banking Awards by The Banker for Western Europe
Climate change
WEUA CEE
pre-approved loan offer (available on online  Best Service Provider for Cash Management 9 countries
•    in   including Italy,  Demograﬁc change
Revenues, €bn 5.7 1.4 channels with reduced time to acceptance) and a 
Germany, Austria 
simplified service model.
Loans, €bn 113 24 You may als•o  M reaqurekset ta  cLoepay fdroemr:  iUn nCiCerendtitr -a Gl roEuaps Stuestranin aEbuilirtyo Ppiaezz aan Gda ien  A1u1le nitni, d20iv15id4 uMailal nc, oItaulyntries  POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
2023 GOALS - CEE
(Euromoney Cash Mea-nmagaeilm: gernotu spusruvsetya i2n0a1b9ili)ty@unicredit.eu Positive impact on society
Customer journey NPS 
increase, points >5 >5 Core revenuesA CAGRB 2%
A. Source League Tables: Dealogic, as of 7 January 2020. Period: 1 January – 31 December 2019; rankings by volume, unless otherwise stated.
A. Commercial Banking Italy, Germany and Austria. A. Revenues excluding Trading.
B. CAGR refers to 2018-2023 period.
11. Refer to Intellectual Capital chapter for more information.
12. Refer to 2018 Integrated Report for more information.
2019 Integrated Report
52 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 53