Our Strategy Our Strategy
→ Strategic Plan  → Strategic Plan   
Another excellent example for this pillar is 
represented by the continuous process optimisation 
that UniCredit is committed to and which leads to a 
new way of working. 
MATERIAL 
Transform and  Disciplined risk  TOPICS
With the decidedly positive initial results deriving 
maximise productivity from the E2E project launched during Transform  management & controls
2019,14 the new Team 23 strategic plan makes this 
approach a permanent part of our setup for six key 
The second pillar confirms how UniCredit continues  and employees. In the new digital experience all  products: current accounts, cards, consumer finance,  Credit, financial and operational risks, as well as, 
to approach productivity transformation and  documents will be provided to and shared with the  mortgages, investment products and SME banking.  compliance are just a few of the aspects exemplified 
maximisation from two important angles. The first  customer who can then sign them digitally. At the  The overall main goals of this new way of working  in this pillar. Arguably, the management of credit and 
is the way in which it improves customer experience  end of the process contracts will be automatically  is to streamline processes to enhance customer  financial risk is at the heart of what commercial banks do.
The emissions related to the printing and distribution of the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 
and the second is the way in which it contributes  stored in the bank’s digital archive and shared with  experience and increase client business while 
and the 2019 Integrated Report have been compensated with the support of Ofﬁcinæ Verdi, which uses Gold Standard credits 
towards maximising productivity controlling costs. the customer in a digital way.  minimising operational risk. At UniCredit we favour long-term sustainable 
Material topics
gained through the development of a programme for biogas production for domestic usage in Kenya.
outcomes over short-term solutions. Consequently, all 
Two significant examples of how our bank is  2023 GOALS - E2EThe Gold Standard is supported by WWF aso uitr  rise mthuen meraotsito nri gaonrdo ruissk  policies are based on this 
The whole process will be completed without 
global certiﬁcation standard for carbon offset projects.
committed to transforming and maximising  concept. For instance, the duration of the Long Term 
generating any paper thanks to end-to-end 
productivity are firstly, the paperless bank13  Seamless cooperation between business, support  Incentive Plan (LTIP) has increased from seven to nine 
digital workflow and straight-through  functions and IT to drive product innovation  INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
consisting in dematerialised processes to reduce  years to consider the longer lengths of the plan as well 
processing capacities. across dedicated customer journeys Digitalization and innovation
costs and operational risk. By leveraging the  as to confirm the long-term commitments of the senior 
Value to customer
best-in-class expertise within our unique and  Furthermore, the customer will be able to access  management of the Group.
extensive commercial banking network, we are  the contracts anytime and sign them through an  Cost savingsA, €m >60
now able to spread this initiative across the Group.  independent channel. Such a digital journey enables  Cost of risk LEAN AND SOLID BANK
bps
Our focus is on key priorities: the enhancement of  the completion of customer interaction within  Customer journey  >5 58 Bank solidity
NPS increase, points
customer experience in branches, the decrease of  minutes if not seconds compared to the lengthy  5 Lean and transparent organization
operational risk and the reduction of cost to serve.  paper-based process.
40
20
With this in mind, the main actions are:  A.2023 run rate.
PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
•  Convergence to a digital experience in the branch 
•   Implementation of straight-through processing  FOCUS 33 40 Employees' development
leading to faster transactions  In this framework IT is a key enabCleorv einr  manadx iImntirsoindgu ction: UniCredit S.p.A. Diversity and inclusion
End-to-end process optimisation project
•   Exchange of digital documents between bank and  productivity. From now onwards, the mSoarinte fro pcaugs es: UniCredit S.p.A.
customers  During Transform 2019 we launched an end-to-end  in IT will be always more oGnr tahpeh iacb dileitvye tloo pamtteranctt a, nd composition: Mercurio G2P018 2023
ETHICS
•   Wider set of digital-ready contracts, increasing use  process optimisation project. E2E means continuously  develop and retain highly skilled IT profiPlreisn.t A: CchPiZe vSi.npg.A . (Bergamo)
Underlying Core Fair business behavior
of client digital signature focusing on the full value chain, adopting a way of  critical skills will also be important in securing tAhper il 2020 Underlying Non CoreA
working which brings business, support functions and  adoption of new technologies in IT and in the bank of  Regulatory headwindsB Business ethics
2023 GOALS - PAPERLESS
IT closely together. tomorrTohwe.  IAntt etghrea steadm Ree tpimoret,  aGnrdo uSpu pOppleermateionnt sh wavilel  been made available at www.unicreditgroup.eu
Costs of risk by geography
Tthhee  sIetcaolniad nh arlef otfa 2il0 n2et0w, oArku wsitlrl ibae  apnadp Geerrlmesasn byy   Thanks to this approach we optimised the current  dreewlivoerkr  arant ein rcerdeuacseti oiannn )p dtr hoardlosuuocg tahivvoaituiylta  (tbwhleeh  idfleou rre adntosiowunrni nologfa  d b y activatbipnsg the QR code3 b3elow. 34 SCyYbSeTrE sMeIcCu rTitRyENDS
account opening process in Germany. What used to  the plan. Such results will be achieved through the  5
by 2021 for key products and CEE by 2023. Climate change
take 80 minutes and more than 20 signatures on 60  shift towards a data-driven organisation which will  34
Western 27 Demograﬁc change
pages of paper is now done in 15 minutes and needs  make real time advanced productivity tracking its  EuropeC
Cost savingsA, €m >150 just one signature on a digital document. main driver; to do so the organisation will leverage  2018 2023
Ytohue  mneawyl ya ldseov reelqoupeesdt  Wa ocorkpfyo rfcroe mm:a UnnaigCerre dToito -l .G roup Sustainability Piazza Gae Aulenti, 20154 Milan, Italy POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
NPCSu isntcormeaesr ejo, puorninetys  >5 These developments have greatly enhanced  All considered, these factors wille e-mnaabill:e  gar ohuigphseurs tainability@unicredit.eu 73 1 70 Positive impact on society
customer experience and our branch managers now  productivity. In order to ensure the respect of 
have more time for focusing on customer needs. In  adequate service levels set, Group Operations will 
A.2023 run rate, cost equivalent of HR and non-HR efficiency.
fact, Commercial Banking Germany managed to have  work towards leveraging the human and machine 
positive net new Individuals clients for the first time  mix in an effort to ensure an optimised capacity  72 70
In the paper-based experience the documents  in many years. The same process in Croatia takes four  distribution and reduce operational risks.
had to be printed, signed several times by the  minutes, so there is still room for improvement. This 
CEE
customer and sent to central archives to be stored  improvement will be achieved thanks to active best 
2018 2023
and ex post dematerialised. All these activities  practice sharing across the Group and the continuous 
A.  Underlying Non Core CoR not meaningful, calculated as difference 
were time-consuming both for our customers  reviewing of our processes.
between Group CoR and (underlying Core + regulatory headwinds).
B.  Regulatory headwinds includes impact from models and new Definition 
of Default.
C.  Western Europe CoR as shown includes CB Italy, CB Germany, CB Austria, 
CIB and excludes Non Core and Group Corporate Centre.
13. Refer to Intellectual Capital chapter for more information. 14. Refer to 2018 Integrated Report for more information. 2019 Integrated Report
54 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 55