Our Strategy Our Strategy
→ Strategic Plan  → Strategic Plan   
Our general approach to credit underwriting is  In Team 23 we confirm our focus and we target 
based on the management of expected loss. We  further actions on Compliance and Operational risk, 
also use new technologies, such as advanced  showing that Compliance and cyber security are  MATERIAL 
Capital and balance  Sustainability as part 
TOPICS
analytics, to support risk monitoring and automated  always at top of our agenda. 
underwriting. Overall, we run the business with  In terms of compliance, we are further enhancing  sheet management of UniCredit DNA
robust credit risk strategies and policies and  controls, processes and overall risk culture, 
adopting a tight monitoring of the portfolio through  sponsoring the rotation of people between business 
clear risk drivers. and control functions. We are also continuing to  The main part of this pillar is our financial strategy. We  Our values unite us and define our Group culture, 
boost oversight through strengthened centralised  take a proactive approach, basing capital allocation on  how we make decisions and how we act on them. 
On NPEs, we continue to have a proactive portfolio  compliance requirements. financial performance at country, segment and individual  As One team, One UniCredit, we are convinced that 
management approach, perfected since 2016: at the  client level. In addition, we are aligning our domestic  our two values, Ethics and Respect (E&R), represent 
end of 2023 Group gross NPEs will be below €20bn,  sovereign bond portfolios to the average of European  what is most important for the Group and for all our 
With regard to cyber security, customer data safety 
down almost €60bn since the end of 2015. This  peers, between 50 to 60 percent of Tangible Equity. stakeholders today; a simple guiding principle ensures 
and security is UniCredit’s top priority and since 
The emissions related to the printing and distribution of the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 
will also help us to effectively deal with calendar  we follow these values every day and everywhere in 
the 2016 launch of Transform 2019, the Group has 
and the 2019 Integrated Report have been compensated with the support of Ofﬁcinæ Verdi, which uses Gold Standard credits 
provisioning. The Gross NPE ratio is expected to be  2023 GOALS our business: Do the right thing! This guiding principle 
invested an average of €0.9bn per year in upgrading  Material topics
gained through the development of a programme for biogas production for domestic usage in Kenya.
below 3.8% in 2023. is embedded in the UniCredit Group culture. We run 
and strengthening its IT systems and cyber security.  200 to 250 
CET1 MDA bTuhffee rGold Standard is supported by WWF as it is the most rigorous 
basis points numerous training sessions and awareness campaigns 
Non Performing Exposure global certiﬁcation standard for carbon offset projects.
In June 2019, the Group implemented a new strong  on this topic to ensure that all employees act as the 
Gross NPE ratioA, % NCoorne Core identification process for access to its web and  Underlying net profit €5bn first line of defence for the bank.  INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
mobile services,15 as well as payment transactions. 
16% Digitalization and innovation
We keep improving our processes and investing in  Financial results and the tangible actions we take in 
5.0% IT solutions to strengthen controls, placing a strong  RoTE > 8% achieving them are certainly important, but equally  Value to customer
<3.8% focus on data protection and security. UniCredit will  important is the way in which these results are 
also continue to focus on Data Leakage Prevention,  achieved.  LEAN AND SOLID BANK
including the secure transmission of data among  Bank solidity
employees and to third parties and the safe use of  Value creation for UniCredit does not just mean 
Lean and transparent organization
Underlying Net Proﬁt
2015 2019 2023 cloud technologies. We are also exploring machine  € bn generating financial value, but also adding value with 
learning techniques which will allow us to move from  CAGR: c.+10% regard to human capital, society and the environment. 
Group PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
gross NPEs, 77.8 25.3 <20 sample-based point-in-time analysis to full real time  4.7 5.0
€bn supervision, although we believe IT cannot be the  3.0 UniCredit has been working on Environmental,  Employees' development
sole solution to the issue. From the operational and  Cover and Introduction: UniCrSeodciita Sl .apn.Ad. Governance (ESG) topics for several years  Diversity and inclusion
A.  Weighted average of NPL ratio of EBA sample banks is 3.0%. Source: EBA 
risk dashboard (data as at 1H19). UniCredit’s definition of “NPE” ratio  reputational risk perspective, we reinforced controls  Sorter pages: UniCredit Sa.npd.A h.as made significant investments in terms of 
is more conservative than EBA. Comparable “NPL” ratio for UniCredit at  of business and governance processes across legal  Graphic development and compositmioann: aMgeerrciaulr iaot tGePntion to these topics especially in the 
9M19 would be 3.2% for Group Core. 2018 2019 2023 ETHICS
entities, increasing our focus on operational and  Print: CPZ S.p.A. (Bergafimeold) of governance. 
Fair business behavior
reputational risk culture and control. April 2020
The rundown of Non-Core is confirmed by 2021, with  While we cannot have a control officer behind  Tangible Equity A dedicated Board committee in charge of ESG topics  Business ethics
€ bn
gross exposure below €5bn at end 2020, leveraging  every employee, we can have a guardian angel - the  The IntegrateCdA RGeRp:o cr.t+ a5n%d Supplement have been madew aavsa cilraebaltee da ti nw 2w0w1.6u nbiyc rinedcliutgdrionugp s.euustainability in 
disposals, write-offs, recoveries and back to bonis. corporate culture of the institution. and also available for download by activattihneg  dthueti eQsR a csosidgen ebde ltoow t.he Corporate Governance  SYSTEMIC TRENDS
53.0 60.0   and Nomination Committee, which since then has  Cyber security
47.7
been renamed Corporate Governance, Nomination 
Non Core evolution Climate change
and Sustainability (CGN&S) Committee. It has been 
GROUP NON CORE Demograﬁc change
25.3 <25 discussing sustainability strategy and achievements 
<20 2018 2019 2023 with a constantly growing attention in recent years, 
8.6 You may also request a copy from: UniCredit - Group Sustainabinil iltiyn eP iwaiztzha  tGhaee i nAcureleanstini, g2 f0o1c5u4s  tMhialat nb,o Ittha lryegulators  POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
As concrete result of our actions, ew-me waiill:l  ggreonueprastues tainability@uannicdr eindviet.setuors are dedicating to ESG issues. Positive impact on society
€16bn shareholder value creation: €8bn capital 
<4.3 distribution and €8bn tangible equity increase. The  The year 2019 began with the approval of our Ethics 
Gross NPE, Gross NPE, 0
€bn €bn Capital distribution within the Group is managed to  and Respect manifesto which was published both in 
2019 2020 2023 2019 2020 2021 optimize sustainable earnings generation, consistently  the 2018 Integrated Report and the Annual Report. 
Gross NPE Gross NPE with our strategic targets. This was the first step of many representing and 
5.0 5.0 <3.8 100 100
Ratio,A % Ratio, % reinforcing our commitment towards doing the right 
NPE coverage, NPE coverage,
65.2 78.1 >75 In UniCredit value creation means more than just  thing in relation to all our stakeholders. 
% %
generating financial values. It also means adding 
A.  Weighted average of NPL ratio of EBA sample banks is 3.0%. Source: EBA risk dashboard (data as at 1H19). UniCredit’s definition of “NPE” ratio is more 
conservative than EBA. Comparable “NPL” ratio for UniCredit at 9M19 would be 3.2% for Group Core. sustainable value in terms of human capital, society 
and the environment. For these reasons we integrate 
sustainability into our business strategies.
15. Refer to Intellectual Capital chapter for more information.
2019 Integrated Report
56 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 57