Our Strategy Our Strategy
→ Strategic Plan  → Strategic Plan 
MATERIAL 
The manifesto and the approach to E&R were  was engaged in spreading the values of E&R in  As a follow-up to the initial communication of  Different structures of the company were involved  TOPICS
presented within the Group with an extensive  their perimeter and meetings were organised in the  the E&R manifesto, other more decisive actions  in the various discussions on how sustainability 
internal communications campaign accompanied  various business and competence lines to introduce  were taken during the year. A policy covering  goals should be developed, including Group Risk 
by short videos and interviews of the Chairman of  the values and present the steps the Group had  harassment, bullying and sexual misconduct  Management, Retail and Corporate Business 
the Board and the CEO. Every first-line manager  decided to take. was approved at holding level and implemented  lines both in WE and CEE, CIB, Investor Relations, 
throughout the Group in June 2019.  Internal Communications, Media Relations and 
naturally Group Sustainability and Foundation. 
Ethics and Respect cascading highlightsA Moreover, an anti-retaliation policy was introduced 
with the aim of reinforcing a speak-up culture  The entire process was closely followed by the 
within the Group and protecting all individuals who  senior managers responsible for each function, 
~80
report wrongdoing in any of the areas covered by  who were involved in a series of meetings to 
 news items published 
55 our policies.  examine the status quo, steer decisions and 
since the announcement… … 
organise updates which were discussed several 
at Group level… In ordTehre t oe mincisrseiaosnes t hreel aintteedr ntaol  tphree spidriiunmtin agn adn d distribution of tthime e2s0 b1y9  tAhnen Euxael cRuetpivoert  Manadn aAgcecmouenntts  Committee 
and the 20c1o9o rIndtineagtriaotne adm Roenpgo rtth he advifef ebreenent  acroemasp inevnoslavteedd i nw tithhe  the suppo(rtth oef  hOifgﬁhceinsæt m Vaenrdaig, ewrhiaicl hc oumsems iGttoelde  Satta Gnrdoaurpd  credits 
Material topics
apgpaliincaetdio tnh aronudg mh othniet odreinvge loofp Em&Ren tto poifc sa,  pinr o2g0r1a9m tmhee  for biogasl epvreold, ucchtaioirne fdo br yd otmhee CstEicO )u sina gteh ein C KEeOn Jyoau.r Fixe (the 
position of Chief EthiTchs eO Gffiocledr  S(CtaEtnOd)a wrda sis c rseuaptpedo.rted by WWF asp eitr iiosd tihce u mpdoastt er iignovrooluvsin g the CEO and his first line 
… a new news item every  global certiﬁcation standard for carbon offset projects.
2 days managers) and presented to the CGN&S for their 
 on the Group and  25 This figure ensures that the Group develops the  review.
… and   local INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
local intranets, of which… Do the right thing culture with all stakeholders, 
(WEU and CEE countries)B Digitalization and innovation
provides Group guidelines on ethical topics and,  Our commitment to sustainability was presented 
A. Data as at 12.12.2019 Value to customer
in coordination with Human Capital and Group  by the CEO in a press conference and in a call 
B. Western Europe (including Italy, Germany and Austria) and Central and Eastern Europe
Compliance, periodically updates the CGN&S  dedicated to financial analysts and investors in the 
Committee on: month of November 2019.16 LEAN AND SOLID BANK
What has been done in 2019 on Ethics and Respect cascading and next steps: • training regarding ethics and conduct topics Bank solidity
•  whistleblowing, including bullying, sexual  This set of commitments and targets covering 
Lean and transparent organization
misconduct and harassment and retaliation Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) topics 
Group CEO •  updates on the internal regulations (e.g. Code of  bear witness to how sustainability is part of our 
 launches the initiative PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
Announcement Conduct). Group’s DNA and is fully integrated in our business 
Chairman
 endorsement video strategies. As such, it is recognised as a crucial  Employees' development
March
Starting with these strong founCdoavtieorn asn adn Idn troduction: UniCrceodmitp So.npe.An.t of our bank’s success in the medium term.  Diversity and inclusion
given that 2019 was the final year ofS othrtee rf opramgeesr : UniCredit S.p.A.
Transform 2019 plan, a grGeraatp heifcf odret vwelaosp dmeednict aatnedd  compositAiolln s: tMaekrechuorliod eGrPs are covered by our values. 
EMCsA local CEOs ETHICS
 and   videos
to the preparation of the Team 23 indPursitnrti:a Cl PpZla Sn..p .A. (BergaWmeo )really care about execution, discipline and 
Cascading New set Fair business behavior
Awareness  of E&R branded materials In this process, sustainability topics were a keAyp ril 2020 transparency and favour long-term sustainable 
Business ethics
Eco-friendly bottles distribution June part of the discussion. outcome over the short-term solution. 
The Integrated Report and Supplement have been made available at www.unicreditgroup.eu
In fact, in accordanacned w ailtsho  tahvea rileaqbuleir efomr ednotwsn olof atdh eb y activatTinhge  tshoec iQaRl  ccoomdep boenleonwt. has also been enhanced  SYSTEMIC TRENDS
Human Capital new policies  CGN&S Committee and the Board of Directors, our   with our Social Impact Banking (SIB) project and its  Cyber security
senior management team focused on integrating  geographical expansion together with a number of 
Making E&R at Group Level Climate change
tangible Leverage the flow  an increasing number of sustainability topics in the  initiatives undertaken by the UniCredit Foundation.  Demograﬁc change
business strategies of our Group.
of global and local policies September
Our aim is to support financial access and inclusion 
You may also request a copy from: UniCredit - Group Sustainabainlidty c Preiaaztzea  aGna ee nAgualgenintgi,  2an0d1 5p4o sMitiilvaen ,w Itoarlkying  POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
Setting the ground  e-mail: groupsustainability@uennicvrierodnitm.euent.  Positive impact on society
for a two 
E&R ways dialogue
Stories communication 
Identifying a 
concept 
to engage colleagues 2020
A. Executive Management Committee.
16. F or more details please refer to our website at https://www.unicreditgroup.eu/en/a-sustainable-bank/Policy-and-esg-rating/our-new-esg-targets.html.
2019 Integrated Report
58 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 59