Our Strategy Our Strategy
→ Strategic Plan  → Strategic Plan 
Commitments and targets MATERIAL 
TOPICS
We are continuously improving the quality of our  Concerning the environment, we wish to contribute 
Commitment Targets 2023A
service and are committed to data protection and  to the shift towards a low-carbon economy and 
confidentiality, as can be seen from the significant  we constantly striving to reduce our own direct 
COAL SECTOR POLICY
amount of investments in this field. In addition,  impact. Moreover, we have set clear 2023 targets 
we engage with our customers to create value for  on client financing. 
No support for thermal coalB mining and coal fired power 
Existing thermal coalB mining 
them and for their stakeholders.  plants (CFPP) projects. Already exited thermal coal  Phase out
and CFPP projects
commodity trade finance (CTF) transactions
Strict limitations on corporate financing of thermal coal  New clients New corporate clients only if thermal 
mining clients coal revenues <25%
Investors Strict limitations on corporate financing of coal fired  New clients New corporate clients only if installed 
power generation (CFPG) clients coal capacity ≤30% and ≤5% by 2025
ARCTIC AND NON CONVENTIONAL OIL AND GAS (NCOG)
The emissions related to the printing and distribution of the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 
and the 2019N Ion stuepgpraotrte dfo rR Aerpcotirct  Ohial avned b oefefsnh ocoremC Aprecntisca Gtaesd p wroijtehc ttsh. e support of Ofﬁcinæ •V Oeilr dpir,o wjechtisc hin  uthsee sA rGcotilcd C Sirtcalnedard credits 
Corporate financing only if revenues from such activities  No exposure to Material topics
Communities Environment gaarein <e2d5 %through the development of a programme for biogas production fo• rO dffosmhoeres tgica su psraogjeec tins  iKn ethney aA.rctic Circle
The Gold Standard is supported by WWF as it is the most rigorous 
• Tar sands projects
Strong global limitations ognlo nboanl- ccoenrvtieﬁnctaiotnioanl O sitl a&n Gdaasr d for carbon offset proje• cSthsa.le O&G and related fracking projects
Do the  (O&G) projects. Allow corporate financing only if revenues  No exposure to • Ultra-deep waterD O&G projects
from such activities are <25% • LNGE from non-conventional gasF projects INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
right thing! Digitalization and innovation
DEFORESTATION OF RAINFOREST Value to customer
No support for clients involved in the  No exposure to Deforestation of rainforest LEAN AND SOLID BANK
deforestation of rainforest
Colleagues Customers Bank solidity
Lean and transparent organization
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
Energy efficiency loans to SMEs  34%  Increase of existing stock in Western Europe  PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
and to individuals in Western Europe 25%
Employees' development
New origination of energy efficiency loans to individuals  >6% Of CEE total loans originated
and SMEs in CEE Cover and Introduction: UniCredit S.p.A. Diversity and inclusion
Increase support for renewable energy sSecotrotreGr t po ages: UniCredit 2S.5p%.A. Increase renewable energy sector EAD, 
facilitate the transition to aG lroawpehr icca drbeovne elocponmoemnyt and composition: Mercurio tGoP more than €9bn
ETHICS
As for the previous plan, the Team 23 KPIs cover  We aim to create value for our stakeholders in a  Print: CPZ S.p.A. (Bergamo) • R eduction of our greenhouse gas 
60% Fair business behavior
profitability, asset quality and cost. In our LTIP we have  responsible and sustainable way, in line with our  April 2020 emissions by 2020; 80% by 2030
Reduce the direct impact of UniCredit
for the first time introduced sustainability KPIs into the  key principle: Do the right thing! 100% • U sage of renewable electricity in our  Business ethics
buildings in Italy, Germany, Austria
scorecard to reflect our firm commitment to ESG topics,  The Integrated Report and Supplement have been made available at www.unicreditgroup.eu
the renewed focus on improved customer experience and  The key pillar of the incentive plan remains  and also available for download by activating the QR code below. SYSTEMIC TRENDS
SOCIAL IMPACT BANKING
our dedication to the team. unchanged compared to the current plan. It will    Cyber security
continue to ensure that the interest of our top 
Increase support for our Social Impact Banking initiative - €1bn Support projects with a positive  Climate change
We are acting to ensure the sustainability of  management and our stakeholders remain fully  microcredit and impact financing social impact
Demograﬁc change
our revenues, therefore financial capital, in the  aligned and to reward long-term sustainable 
long-term and help protect all our capitals,  performance and value creation.
RANKING POSITION
from natural and from social and relationship to  You may also request a copy from: UniCredit - Group Sustainability Piazza Gae Aulenti, 20154 Milan, Italy POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
intellectual and human capital.  Be a strong partner for our customee-mrs ainil fi: ngaroncuipnsgu tshteairinability@uTnoipc r5edit.eu Position in EMEA combined Green  Positive impact on society
environmentally sustainable projects Bonds & ESG-linked loansH
External rating by the independent provider    Incentivises an improved ranking
Initial UniCredit ranking is 5th among a peer group composed  LTIP while penalising a worse ranking
of 15 international banks’i
A. Targets for 2023, unless stated otherwise.
B. Thermal coal is a grade of coal mainly used for power and heat generation, as opposed to metallurgical coal which is mainly used in steel production.
C. Offshore: above water. Onshore: on ground.
D. >1,500 meters below sea level.
E. Liquefied natural gas.
F. Offshore Arctic gas, shale gas and Ultra-deep water gas.
G. P ortfolios considered “Renewable Energy”: biomass, hydro, photovoltaic, wind, combined heat and power, battery storage, energy from waste and other renewables as well 
as corporates predominantly operating renewable energy assets.
H. E SG Linked Loans = Green Loans, KPI-Linked loans, ESG-score Linked loans. Green Bonds = Green, Social and Sustainability bonds. Positioning to be assessed by looking at 
Loan Radar and Dealogic League Tables.
I. I ncluding UniCredit. The peer group is composed by: Banco Santander, Banque Populaire SA, Barclays PLC, BNP Paribas SA, Commerzbank AG, Credit Agricole SA, Deutsche 
2019 Integrated Report
Bank AG, ING Groep NV, Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, Nordea Bank ABP, Societe Generale SA, Standard Chartered PLC, The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC, UBS Group AG, UniCredit SpA
60 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 61