Our Strategy Our Strategy
→ Strategic Plan  → Strategic Plan 
UniCredit 2019 adopted key institutional and international initiatives such as: Internal ESG initiatives will continue to yield results: MATERIAL 
TOPICS
ESG ESG
TCFDA Ongoing initiative started in December 2017 in Italy, which was  
Signed up to the recommendations of the Task Force  Social  10 countries  
extended to further  , aimed at supporting
Task Force on Climate  on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures.  Impact  social entrepreneurship  microlending 
 and providing
-Related Financial  Banking
The chapter dedicated to the first disclosure is available at page 94
Disclosures in economically deprived areas
PACTA Participation to the group of banks who agreed on road  ESG The emissions related to the printing and distribution of the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts  ESG
and the 2019 Integrated Report have been Rceoumspaebnles abtoetdt lwesit hd itshteri bsuuptepdo ritn o Ift aOlfiaﬁnci nhæea Vdeqrudai,r twehrsic h uses Gold Standard credits 
testing the Paris Agreement Capital Transition  Plastic  Material topics
Paris Agreement  gained through the developmeenlt iomf ai npraogtrianmgm ep floar sbitoigca sb porotdtulcetison b fyo r2 d0o2m3.e stic usage in Kenya.
Assessment methodology free
Capital Transition   developed by 2 ii. The goal is to  The Gold StanSdianrdg ilse s-uuppsoert epd lbays WtWicF as it is the mroesmt riogovroeuds 
 items to be   from canteens by 2023
Assessment Paris Agreement Targets global certiﬁcation standard for carbon offset projects.
align bank lending portfolios to 
INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
Digitalization and innovation
Value to customer
ESG ESG LEAN AND SOLID BANK
PRB Signed up to the programme launched by the  Significant reduction of paper use, for example  
Bank solidity
Reduction 
United Nations Environment Programme  paperless branch programme
through the  ,  Lean and transparent organization
Principles for  of paper use
Responsible Banking  to help banks to align their business strategy with society’s goals and increased share of recycled paper
PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
Employees' development
Cover and Introduction: UniCredit S.p.A. Diversity and inclusion
Sorter pages: UniCredit S.p.A.
Graphic development and composition: Mercurio GP
ETHICS
ESG Print: CPZ S.p.A. (Bergamo) ESG
OECD Climate  Internal campaAipgrnil  p2r0o2m0oted by Millennial BoardA.  Fair business behavior
Signed up to the initiative launched at G7 in Biarritz in which  Business ethics
 Business for Inclusive  action  Employees volunteered more than 1,200 ideas 
concrete contribution The Integrated Report and Supplement have been made available at www.unicreditgroup.eu
Growth Coalition  UniCredit will make a  week
and also avaoilna bhleo wfo tr od opwrontleocatd t hbey  aecntviviraotninmg etnhte QR code below. SYSTEMIC TRENDS
(B4IG)
  Cyber security
Climate change
A. Refer to the Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) section for more information.
Demograﬁc change
You may also request a copy from: UniCredit - Group Sustainability Piazza Gae Aulenti, 20154 Milan, Italy POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
ESG
e-mail: groupsustainability@unihcreedlipt.e eumployees Positive impact on society
Ongoing campaign in order to   
Energy 
impact behaviour
understand the   of their   
awareness
conscious actions
and adopt more 
A.  Consists of employees ranging from 22-32 years of age, working to challenge pre-conceived patterns and raise awareness on the views of new generations (on 
banking topics), proposing innovative ideas and solutions.
2019 Integrated Report
62 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 63