Human Capital Our Strategy
→ Human Capital
Foster engagement MATERIAL 
TOPICS
Our employees represent our Group’s strongest  Building a positive work environment
We support our colleagues throughout their professional lives by listening to their needs,  asset and their engagement is essential to our 
valuing their skills, implementing training programmes and development plans and  viability.  In line with our Ethics and Respect values, at UniCredit 
promoting diversity, inclusion and welfare policies.  we believe in creating an engaging and positive working 
environment based on respect and work-life balance. 
Listening and involving
OUR STOCKS OF CAPITAL
In line with such commitment, in 2019 we issued 
To ensure colleagues are constantly aligned with  two new global policies: one against harassment, 
our goals, extensive communication was carried  sexual misconduct and bullying, the other against 
out on our Group intranet informing employees of  acts of retaliation. These new policies lead to a greater 
The emissions related to the printing and distribution of the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 
the key elements of our new strategic plan Team 23  awareness on unacceptable behaviours and promote a 
ENGAGED COMPETENT DIVERSIFIED  and the 20l1a9u nInctheegdra itne dD eRceepmorbte hr a2v0e1 b9e.1e Tnh cios mcopmenmsautneidca wtiiothn  the suppo‘rstp oefa kO ufﬁpc’ icnuæltu Vree rwdhi, ewreh aicllh e umspeslo Gyeoelds  fSetealn lidsaternde cdr etod its 
COLLEAGUES AND SKILLED  WORKFORCE regaacihneedd  tthhero ruegcho rtdh en udmevbeelor pomf menotr eo ft haa pnr o7g0r,a0m00m e for biogasa pnrdo pdruoctteicotne dfo wr hdeonm reepstoirct iunsga mgeis icno nKdeuncytas.. Material topics
PROFESSIONALS
The Gold Standard is supported by WWF as it is the most rigorous 
page views after only three days publication. Our 
global certiﬁcation standard for carbon offset projects.
senior management subsequently cascaded these  We strive to provide our employees with a wide and rich 
important strategic messages to our population  welfare offer to meet fundamental health and family 
INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
Group-wide. needs and focusing always more on personal needs which 
Digitalization and innovation
may change during the life cycle.4 In 2019 we raised 
Value to customer
further awareness of existing and new initiatives through 
In order to gain a better understanding of the internal 
a global welfare communications campaign which ran for 
climate in light of the new Group strategies, our new 
RESULTS
eight months, outlining our diverse and comprehensive  LEAN AND SOLID BANK
• New global policies against harassment, sexual misconduct, bullying and acts of retaliation People Survey, originally scheduled for 2019, is set to 
• More than 30 training hours per capita be launched at the beginning of 2020.  offer, using local testimonials and stories covering  Bank solidity
topics such as healthy lifestyle, employee assistance 
• Increased female presence in our senior leadership Lean and transparent organization
programmes, time management and flexibility.
During the course of the year, we involved all 
PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
colleagues in our internal campaign on sustainability 
matters by soliciting their views and ideas on how to  Employees' development
Enhance skills
COMMUNITY IMPACTS be more sustainable.2 Cover and Introduction: UniCredit S.p.A. Diversity and inclusion
BETTER LIFE QUALITY THANKS 
Sorter pages: UniCredit S.p.A.
TO BETTER WELFARE POLICIES
Graphic development and compositWioen :s Mtrievrec utori ob eG aPn employer of choice, investing in 
ETHICS
FOCUS Print: CPZ S.p.A. (Bergaamttor)acting, managing and developing talent. We want 
Fair business behavior
UniCredit Millennial Board April 2020 to be a company where people can fully deploy their 
Business ethics
ENHANCED DIVERSITY The Millennial Board was established in 2019 and meets  skills, abilities and qualities.
AND INCLUSION quarteTrlhy ein I notredgerra ttoe rda iRsee paowrat raennde sSsu opfp mleilmleennntia hlsa’v e been made available at www.unicreditgroup.eu
views on banking topaicnsd a anlds oto a evxapillaobrele in fnoor vdaotwivne liodaedas b y activating the QR code below. SYSTEMIC TRENDS
and solutions. The Board is composed of colleagues    Attracting talent Cyber security
aged between 22 and 32, coming from different areas  Climate change
of the Group and of eight different nationalities. Each  To guarantee sustainable support for the 
Demograﬁc change
EMPOWERMENT AND  member is supported by a mentor from the same  transformation of the Group, we continue to invest in 
DEVELOPMENT OF SKILLS area. They also share their views on important matters  the best available talent on our markets.
Ysouuc hm aasy t haels coh raellqeunegset  oaf  acottprayc ftrionmg a: nUdn miCarendaigti n- gG trhoue p Sustainability Piazza Gae Aulenti, 20154 Milan, Italy POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
millennial generation, ethics and seu-smtaaiinla: bgirloituyp. Isnu tshteaiirn ability@uInn itchreed liats.et uthree years, UniCredit has hired  Positive impact on society
role they will oversee the comprehensive review and  approximately 200 promising young graduates through 
implementation of more than 1,200 initiatives proposed  its Impact Group Graduate Programme, which assures 
by our employees for a more sustainable future.3 dedicated development paths. 
TARGETS
• 20 percent women in senior leadership roles by 2022 1. Refer to the Strategic Plan section for more information.
2. Refer to Natural Capital chapter for more information.
3. Refer to Natural Capital chapter for more information.
4. Refer to the Supplement – Human Capital section for more information.
2019 Integrated Report
66 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 67