Our Strategy Our Strategy
→ Human Capital → Human Capital
Managing performance These leadership development paths last from 18 to  Promoting gender balance
MATERIAL 
36 months and in 2019 were initiated by more than  TOPICS
At UniCredit we have implemented processes to  300 executives. Our Global Policy on Gender Equality sets out  Female presence in senior leadership 
set goals, assess performance and define career  principles and guidelines to ensure a level playing field  2019 12%
development based on the following key principles: Over the course of the year we continued to foster  throughout the organisation as a way of generating 
achieving ambitious goals connecting the Group’s  professional growth in our competence and business  higher value.  2018 10%
strategy with individual contributions; empowering  lines using the modular and flexible programmes 
managers to make decisions about their people;  available in our learning catalogue in fields such as  UniCredit has been consistently investing in supporting  The Group is committed to gender pay equality. 
rewarding merit and performance; ensuring respect  finance and risk management. the growth and development of female colleagues  UniCredit has put a range of initiatives in place in 
of our Ethics and Respect values and our Five  in the organisation. Since signing the UK Women in  this respect: the equal pay principle is embedded in 
Fundamentals; encouraging individual development  In addition, training opportunities specific to local  Finance Charter in July 2018, female representation  the Group Compensation Policy; specific gender pay 
and learning; increasing transparency with continuous  business needs in each country and division were  in our senior leadership roles has grown from 9 to  equality targets have been assigned to all our senior 
feedback.  provided in order to enhance professional skills and  12 percent and the Group remains committed to  leaders; a monitoring process has been defined and 
The emissions related to the printing and distribution of the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 
assist colleagues in their roles. Our efforts address  reaching 20 percent (+/-1 percent) by 2022. implemented.
and the 2019 Integrated Report have been compensated with the support of Ofﬁcinæ Verdi, which uses Gold Standard credits 
UniCredit Performance Management is the  skills in retail, corporate and private banking as well 
Material topics
gained through the development of a programme for biogas production for domestic usage in Kenya.
Group-wide appraisal and development process for  as upskilling in data science, advanced analytics and 
The Gold Standard is supported by WWF as it is the most rigorous 
all our people. All employees receive a performance  engineering, skills we identified as those of the future 
FOCUS global certiﬁcation standard for carbon offset projects.
review from their manager and the behaviours  able to push the evolution of our organisation.
Diversity and Inclusion Week
expected are based on our guiding principle Do 
In line with our Ethics and Respect values, from 14 to 18 October 2019 UniCredit launched its first Diversity and  INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
the right thing!.5 This process ensures a common 
We achieved a total of more than 30 hours  Inclusion Week, during which around 13,600 employees explored the topic. Around 80 initiatives in 15 markets  Digitalization and innovation
approach to performance management and decisions 
training per capita in 2019 thanks to our 
took place including workshops, testimonials and training courses involving our colleagues and their families,  Value to customer
on reward, career development and learning 
investments in professional skills development.
external experts and non-governmental organisations. 
opportunities.
LEAN AND SOLID BANK
Highlights
In addition, our annual review enables us to define  Value diversity   Bank solidity
career and succession plans that ensure a sustainable  Age  Disability
Lean and transparent organization
leadership pipeline with regard to both executives  and inclusion In our Czech offices we hosted inspirational  In Italy to promote awareness we organised the 
and employees on the executive track. speeches on the age management topic.  In My Shoes event, a blind walk for employees 
Furthermore, we held an innovative  that took place in Piazza Gae Aulenti at the  PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
UniCredit remains committed to ensuring an equal  external workshop dedicated to people over 50  bank’s Milan headquarters in cooperation with two  Employees' development
Developing skills opportunity workplace where people of all ages, genders  aimed at attracting candidates fCoor vthere  arnedta Iinl tbraondkuecrt ion: UniCroerdgiat nSi.spa.tAi.ons supporting the blind, Unione Italiana  Diversity and inclusion
and cultural backgrounds can contribute to our success.  role and in which our Regional ManagSeor rptearr tpicaigpeast:e Udn. iCredit SC.ipe.cAh.i and Istituto Ciechi Milano.
We invest in initiatives to foster the professional  In line with our Ethics and Respect values, we strive to  Graphic development and compositWioen :l aMuenrcchuerdio a G GPuidelines on Disability brochure, a 
ETHICS
development of colleagues and to ensure they can  listen to the needs of our diverse workforce by creating a  Young refugees Print: CPZ S.p.A. (Bergavmaod)emecum on how to manage different disabilities both 
Fair business behavior
support UniCredit’s objectives. better and more accessible working environment based  In Germany colleagues reflected on hoAwp,r il 2020 at work and outside, created with the help of colleagues 
on inclusion.  as a bank, we can contribute to inclusion  with disabilities. A series of online training courses  Business ethics
A development track is available to all UniCredit  Thein I nthteeg eramtepdlo Ryempeonrtt  amnadr kSeutp. pSlienmcee n2t0 h1a1v e been madea dadvraeilsasbinleg  adtis wabwilwit.yu mnicarneadgietgmroeunpt .weuere also published. 
employees. Both vertical growth and horizontal moves  In 2019 our Group Diversity and Inclusion Manager has  we have cooperateda nwdit ahl sJoob alvinagilea,b alen  foorrg daonwisnatloioand  by activatIinn gA uthster iQa,R c coolldeea gbueelos wg.athered at the Sensing Journey,  SYSTEMIC TRENDS
may be possible based on emerging opportunities and  worked alongside our CEO and other senior managers  which helps young refugees aged between 15 and   an event in which they were given the opportunity  Cyber security
the fulfilment of individual goals. The track can be  with quarterly meetings while our Diversity and  24 to find work. In addition to several workshops  of gaining an insight into the everyday challenges of 
Climate change
locally customised to meet specific business needs. Inclusion Committee monitors the initiatives and the  held at our local offices, over 200 of our employees  people with different disabilities and learning about 
Demograﬁc change
progression towards the targets assigned. were involved as mentors. This is the largest number  their experience as bank customers.
For a selected pool of employees, identified according  of mentors of all Joblinge’s partner companies. Colleagues in Bosnia and Herzegovina attended a 
to outstanding performance and potential, a fast-track  During the course of the year, our senior management  Y ou may also request a copy from: UniCredit - Group Sustainabwiloitryk sPhioapzz oan G uanec Aounlsecniotiu, s2 b0i1a5s 4to Mwialardns,  Iptaeloyple with  POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
development path is available. In 2019 we redesigned  discussed the importance of this topic in specific  LGBT+ e-mail: groupsustainability@udnisicarbeidliitti.eesu including a talk from an external speaker and  Positive impact on society
our executive development offer with the intention  meetings and we continued to carry out awareness  The Diversity and Inclusion Week  colleague testimonials.
of supporting our executives in each stage of their  building activities to foster an inclusive culture. We  highlighted the successful LGBT+ 
career. Five phases have been identified: onboarding,  designed Leading with inclusivity, a learning module  employee inclusion experiences in  Minorities 
settlement, perfomance, consolidation and transition.  to support our executives in developing an inclusive  our bank. For example in Germany a network  Colleagues in Romania reflected on how 
In particular, we have introduced dedicated paths to  leadership style. In Italy, we launched an online training  of colleagues, wishing to advocate equal  Roma minorities are perceived in corporations 
meet the development needs in the onboarding and  on how to recognise and tackle our unconscious biases;  opportunities in the workplace, regardless of sexual  and further discussed this topic following an 
settlement phase, in order to support those skills  we will continue to deliver this course across the Group  identity, gender identity and gender expression,  inspirational speech by the founder of Policy Centre for 
required to face new challenges and tasks versus key  in 2020. was founded in 2014 and officially recognised in  Roma and Minorities in Romania who is also Advocacy 
competencies. 2018. The network is called UniCorns. Regional Director for World Vision International and 
Member of the Board of Trustees of the UN High 
5. Refer to Ethics and Respect: Do the right thing! chapter for more information. Commissioner for Human Rights. 
2019 Integrated Report
68 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 69