Our Strategy Our Strategy
→ Social and relationship Capital → Social and relationship Capital
Invest in long-term 
UniCredit banks score to those of its competitors  This supports the business in the development of  advantage of a set of ad-hoc tools to provide an  MATERIAL 
TOPICS
stakeholder  and to understand the main drivers. Individual and  solutions linked to customer needs. approach aimed at strengthening the relationship 
corporate customers of UniCredit and of competitor  between the bank and its customers, thus improving 
relationships
banks involved in the survey are selected randomly  Group-wide, our complaint management systems  the experience while providing actionable insight to 
by the research provider which ensures a fair  allow us to identify any sources of concern and to  the bank. 
comparison. promptly resolve them to the satisfaction of our  Each segment’s customer journey is mapped so that 
Engaging with stakeholders is essential to building     The strategic NPS was integrated in the new  customers. the programme best suits the client’s real needs. 
trust. We are investing in a series of initiatives that  Long-term-Incentive Programme (LTIP) for senior  By engaging with our customers, this project enables 
enhance collaboration and ongoing dialogue with our  managers in which UniCredit aims to achieve a  In Romania, we implemented automated triggers for  us to better understand their needs and to cope in 
key stakeholder groups. consistent positive gap on the NPS in comparison to  customer experience surveys, scaling up real-time  time with situations which could otherwise jeopardise 
competition at Group Level feedback for main touchpoints and journeys  the customer-bank relationship.
•  Relationship Surveys are carried out by local banks  throughout the entire customer lifecycle.
Engaging with our customers to measure the quality of relationship overall,  Customers are able to express their concerns at any  This year around 3,000 clients were interviewed 
The emissions related to the printing and distribution of the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 
allowing banks to service customers, improve  time during their journey through the bank. using the top-down approach while around 6,000 
and the 2019 Integrated Report have been compensated with the support of Ofﬁcinæ Verdi, which uses Gold Standard credits 
UniCredit aims to provide its customers with a unique  cross-selling and prevent churn by performing  Thanks to the close the loop process, we can identify  clients were interviewed through instant feedback; 
Material topics
gained through the development of a programme for biogas production for domestic usage in Kenya.
experience based on a high-quality service approach  caring actions on detractors possible reasons for client dissatisfaction and deal  nearly 90 large corporate clients were interviewed 
The Gold Standard is supported by WWF as it is the most rigorous 
which begins by really listening to them. This focus  •  Instant Feedback Surveys, carried out by local banks  with them before the client actually makes a formal  by external market intelligence leader Greenwich 
global certiﬁcation standard for carbon offset projects.
on customer experience is renewed in the Team 23  measuring the NPS at single customer journey or  complaint. and approximately 150 caring actions were 
strategic plan.  touchpoint level. This allows the banks to close the  Moreover, we developed the Customer first contest in  performed.
INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
loop performing individual caring actions as well as  various branches of the network: these are quarterly 
Digitalization and innovation
In the new strategic plan, UniCredit has adopted the Net  continuously improve its processes and the way it  contests based on branch experience surveys and  During 2019, our approach on social media has 
Value to customer
Promoter Score (NPS)3 as key performance indicator to  serves its customers. To facilitate the roll-out, the Group  complaints management process flow. The results  changed slightly as the Group has formally chosen to 
measure customer experience. The NPS is a worldwide  selected a global provider that will run instant feedback  combine NPS for branch experience with the score  close its Facebook and Instagram profiles as of June 
standard used across many industries to measure loyalty  surveys in the different countries of the Group. obtained for a correct registration of complaints  2019, to invest in the enhancement of proprietary  LEAN AND SOLID BANK
by understanding customers’ willingness to recommend  received within the branch. digital channels. Despite this, social media continue  Bank solidity
their bank to friends, colleagues or business partners.  UniCredit integrates the collection of solicited  The initiative raised branch staff awareness in  to be important as a tool for delivering key messages, 
Lean and transparent organization
Clients are segmented into promoters, passives and  feedback with the analysis of internal operational  terms both of the importance of putting customers  important business and innovative initiatives as well 
detractors which allows the bank to take bespoke actions  data as well as with unsolicited observations.  first during interaction and of a timely and correct  as for providing useful information on products and 
PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
in line with the characteristics of each segment. As described at the launch of the project last year,  registration of complaints. services across the Group.
UniCredit uses a systematic Voice of the Web listening  Employees' development
UniCredit has developed a system of measuring the  tool which applies big data and artificial intelligence  In Bulgaria we developed a new pCroovceers sa nfodr  Ignatrtohderuicntgio n: UniCrCeudsitto Sm.pe.Ars. who write comments and make specific  Diversity and inclusion
NPS in a holistic way which is being rolled out step by  methodologies to monitor publicly available data on  corporate customers feedback (instantS oferteedrb paacgke s: UniCredit Sre.pq.uAe.sts are attended to, via private message or 
step in the different markets, supporting the banks’  social media and the open web with the aim of: surveys). Its main goal is toG rmapehasicu rdee cvueslotopmmeernst  and compositmioons: tM perrecfuerriaob GlyP via our proprietary channels. 
ETHICS
strategic initiatives: •  monitoring brand reputation and sentiment online  satisfaction and to collect ideas, right aPftreinr tr:e CcPeZiv iSn.pg .A. (BergaDmuor)ing 2019 around 5,400 requests were managed 
Fair business behavior
•  The Benchmarking Study, carried out by the  •  analysing conversation related to specific products  a service or signing a contract. Moreover, it is alAsop rail  2020 on social networks in Italy.
Business ethics
Holding, measures the strategic NPS in local  and services in order to track potential issues and  channel which brings early warnings and can be used 
markets, allowing the Group to compare its local  identify untapped consumer needs. to prevTehnet  Ipnotetegnratitaeld c Romeppolrati natnsd a Snudp cpulestmomenetr hs acvheu rbne en made available at www.unicreditgroup.eu
(mid and long term)a. nCdu rarelsnot layv, awiela abrlee  rfeodr edsoigwnninloga tdh bey  activatIinngt ethrea QcRt icnogde w beitlohw .stakeholder groups SYSTEMIC TRENDS
Group stakeholder integrated listening survey and we are including gamification in order to   Cyber security
boost-up clients response rate. Open interaction with key stakeholders helps us build 
Climate change
Based on the collected feedback from instant feedback  a sound banking environment based on transparency 
BENCHMARKING INTERVIEWS  Demograﬁc change
Global survey, Group benchmark survey and our business  and mutual understanding.
(Strategic NPS)
Solicited structures, we launched the following initiatives: Our broad base of stakeholders includes regulators, 
Y•o  Buu msinaye sasl sEoa srye,q pureesatp ap rcoovpeyd f lrooamn:s U fonri CSrmedailtl  -a Gndro up Sustainabinilviteys tPoirasz, zraa tGinage  aAguelnecniteis,  2a0nd1 5c4o nMsuilmane,r  Iataslsyociations,  POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
Light diagnostics Medium Enterprise (SME) clienet-sm (uapil :t og r€o u2p5s0u,0st0a0in)ability@uwniitchre wdhito.emu we work constructively through a variety  Positive impact on society
•  Fast Track (FT) process enhancements; we are  of channels. We communicate through our corporate 
INTERNAL 
developing changes in the criteria and the eligible  websites, annual reports and social media platforms, 
OPERATIONAL 
MARKETING VOICE collateral type: the FT process allows credit  we participate in meetings, forums and other events 
DATA &  PROCESSES
LEVERS OF THE WEB authorities delegation to the business division SME  and we carry out numerous consultations and surveys.
CUSTOMER 
clients.
COMPLAINTS
UniCredit is a Global Systemically Important Bank 
In Italy, the Customer Advocacy programme was  (G-SIB) and, as a pan-European bank, is subject to 
Unsolicited Unsolicited
launched to fully reshape the customer intelligence  different regulations and supervisory authorities. For 
Solicited framework on corporate clients, identifying and  this reason we engage with regulators at national, 
Instant Feedback & Relationship Interviews addressing customer experience. The project takes  European and international levels. 
(NPS on Customer Journey level & Relationship NPS) Local
Social and economical trends
2019 Integrated Report
3. Refer to the Supplement - Social and relationship Capital section for more information.
72 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 73