Our Strategy Our Strategy
→ Social and relationship Capital → Social and relationship Capital
In 2019 the key regulatory debates in which UniCredit  Our Group remains committed to strengthening  In 2019 we contributed approximately €45 million4  it easier for people to access financing, we can help  MATERIAL 
TOPICS
was involved include: protection of consumers and improving their  to communities, as measured by the London  reduce poverty and stimulate community progress.
•  the European risk reduction package review  awareness. In Italy Noi&UniCredit, our longstanding  Benchmarking Group model (LBG). We also highlight 
which aims to reduce the risks in the EU banking  partnership with national consumer associations in  our investment in the Social Impact Banking project  We offer a broad range of customised solutions to 
sector. This comprehensive package of reforms  place since 2005, was expanded in 2019 to include  as measured by the new LBG Business Innovation for  enable individuals and businesses to gain ready 
was adopted by the EU institutions in May 2019.  14 different associations. During the year many  Social Impact reporting framework. access to financial products and services, whether for 
It includes, inter alia, measures to increase the  initiatives were developed. These include: personal projects or important business activities. At 
resilience of EU banks and to improve their lending  •  10 Things to Know About the Payment Services  Community contributions  the same time, we are strongly committed to helping 
capacity to support the economy  Directive 2, a leaflet in simple language and in a  By geography, 2019A 100% = €37.6 million people and businesses improve their personal financial 
•  regular discussion with the European Central Bank  format accessible to the blind and visually impaired,  skills so they can make responsible financial choices. A 
42%ItalyB
and other European institutions concerning the  illustrating the main innovations introduced by this  few examples of the solutions we offer in our countries 
37%Germany
proposals to introduce additional provisions for new  EU Directive are provided below.
7% Austria
Non Performing Loans (NPLs). In these discussions  •  Letter to the Consumer, in collaboration with 
14%CEE
The emissions related to the printing and distribution of the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 
we aim to mitigate the impact of the proposed  Codacons, a summary of the most interesting topics 
and the 2019 Integrated Report have been compensated with the support of Ofﬁcinæ Verdi, which uses Gold Standard credits 
measures and their consequences for our customers taken from the last UniCredit Integrated Report. The 
A. Data refers to cash contributions only. YOUNG PEOPLE Material topics
gained through the development of a programme for biogas production for domestic usage in Kenya.
•  constant discussion with policy makers in order to  letter was published on our website and a social  B. Includes also UniCredit Foundation.
establish an EU-wide framework for sustainable  campaign was carried out on the UniCredit Twitter  The Gold Standard is supported by WWF as iItt aisly t:h aes  mato 2st0 1ri9g,o mroourse  than 45,000 customers 
investments. From the very beginning, we  account and on Codacons social media pages By focus, 2019A global ce1r0t0iﬁ%c a=t i€o4n5 .s0t amnidllaiornd for carbonu onfdfesre t3 p0r boejencetfis.tted from the My Genius current 
55%Arts/Culture
supported a practical, scientific-based, flexible,  •  Bella Nonno! An intergenerational training course  account with pricing benefits
10%Economic development INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
progressive and proportionate taxonomy, to be  for active seniors carried out in collaboration with  12%Social welfare Germany: as at 2019, more than 66,000 
Digitalization and innovation
applicable by 2022. In addition we participate  Confconsumatori and aimed at citizens aged 65 and  17%Education customers under 26 took advantage of the 
in working groups on sustainable finance set up  over. It involved previously trained students aged 16  and young people free-of-charge account StartKonto. Value to customer
2% Health/Environment
by organisations such as the European Banking  to 19 acting as tutors to promote the digitalisation 
2% Emergency relief
Federation, the Association for Financial Markets in  of young and senior citizens LEAN AND SOLID BANK
2% Other supportB
Europe and the Institute of International Finance. •  Access to banking services in the Internal  A. Includes Group cash contributions and – for Italy, Germany and Austria only Bank solidity
ELDERLY
Areas Project, carried out in collaboration with  – time, in-kind resources and management costs. Management costs are
Lean and transparent organization
attributed proportionally based on contributions by focus.
In 2019 our investor engagement included 452  Cittadinanzattiva to strengthen digitalisation, financial 
B. “Other support" refers to activities that cannot be classiﬁed. Bosnia and Herzegovina: as at 2019 
meetings and 37 roadshow days with institutional,  awareness and entrepreneurship in remote internal 
retail and socially responsible investors. areas of the country. Facilitators, adequately trained  By type, 2019A 100% = €45.0 million approximately 6,000 customers over 65 took  PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
on banking and financial issues, represented the  advantage of the Modula package, tailored to  Employees' development
83%Cash
their needs and preferences
In addition, we maintained an ongoing interaction with  point of reference for the inhabitants with regard to  Cover and Introduction: UniCredit S.p.A. Diversity and inclusion
5% Time Bulgaria: in 2019 approximately 2,800 customers 
sustainability rating agencies, in response to increasing  these topics. In addition, we initiated the monitoring  Sorter pages: UniCredit S.p.A.
7% Management costs aged between 60 and 75 benefitted from our loan 
requests by investors for greater transparency, more  of community needs: thanks to a survey on access  Graphic development and composition: Mercurio GP
5% In-kind with a quick and easy application process. ETHICS
stakeholder engagement and stronger sustainability  to banking services, the citizens of inland areas will  Print: CPZ S.p.A. (Bergamo)
Fair business behavior
management. Our sustainable performance is reflected  be able to design a map of their needs and propose  A. Includes Group cash contributions and – for Italy, Germany and AuAstpriar ioln 2ly020
– time, in-kind resources and management costs. Management costs are Business ethics
in the key external ratings we received in 2019. solutions that take the specific characteristics of the 
attributed proportionally based on contributions by focus.
territory to which they belong into account. The Integrated Report and Supplement have been made available at www.unicreditgroup.eu
UniCredit sustainability ratings 2019 Business Innovation for Social Impact LOW-INCOME INDIVIDUALS AND FAMILIES
and also available for download by activating the QR code below. SYSTEMIC TRENDS
(related to Social Impact Banking project)
UniCredit supported these last two initiatives also    Cyber security
By type, 2019A 100% = €5.9 million UniCredit’s offer includes accounts free of charge 
absolute ESG rating 5.0 with the contribution of its Social Impact Banking 
or at a reasonable fee which provide advantageous  Climate change
that produced the training contents and made the 
0 99 percentile, banks sector 5 23%Cash conditions for vulnerable customers. Demograﬁc change
skills of volunteer employees available.
52%Time
15%In-kind
ratings and level of compliance You may also request a c1op0y% frMoman: aUgneimCreendti tc -o sGtrsoup Sustainability Piazza Gae Aulenti, 20154 Milan, Italy POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
e-mail: groupsustainability@unicredit.eu Positive impact on society
F EE+ EEE Invest in social and  DISABLED
A. Data includes cash contributions, time, in-kind resources and management
Lowest level  Very strong Full
costs for Italy, Germany and Austria. 
economic development Austria: all branches are barrier-free. The key 
features in these branches include self-service 
ESG risk rating Fostering financial inclusion machines at wheelchair height which are usable 
Negl Low Med High Severe We strive to support the growth of our communities,  via keyboard and voice input and adjustable 
0-10 10-20 20-30 30-40 40-100 always in search of new ways to serve our retail and  UniCredit works to promote stronger economic  desks in customer zones and consulting areas.
corporate customers. In addition to our traditional  participation for everyone . We believe that by making 
banking activities, we implement corporate 
Management B (Climate Change) citizenship and philanthropic initiatives that support  4.  2019 data are based on internal cost management data sources. €43.5 million, measured by the London Benchmarking Group model (LBG), include Groupwide 
cash contributions and, for Italy, Germany and Austria only, the value of employees’ time, in-kind resources and management costs. Cash contributions include 
A B C D E financial and social inclusion. Group’s sponsorships and donations, which are selected, managed and monitored by UniCredit according to the Global Policy - Group principles and guidelines 
for Sponsorships and Donations Management. Aside from contributions tracked using the LBG model, total contributions to communities include an additional 
performance band, ranked on a A-E scale roughly €1.5 million for business initiatives focusing on the economic development in our territories. Additionally, we engaged colleagues in these community 
initiatives and attracted contribution from third parties for approximately €1.3 million.
2019 Integrated Report
74 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 75