Our Strategy Our Strategy
→ Social and relationship Capital → Social and relationship Capital
In 2019 we continued to engage in a range of  In Austria we were the title sponsor of the Bank Austria  CULTURAL SUPPORT Supporting competitiveness and  MATERIAL 
TOPICS
financial education programmes, targeting several  Business Plan Contest Next Generation and the Bank  contributing to community growth 
Supporting talent
demographics. Our training programmes include  Austria Business Idea Contest. Approximately 1,500 
face-to-face and digital sessions.  pupils (school classes, groups or young individuals)  UniCredit Foundation confirms its commitment  An ongoing interaction is necessary if we are to 
were able to enter the contest in one of the following  to promoting studies, research and initiatives  understand the urgent needs of communities and 
categories: best business idea, best business plan and  aimed at broadening the knowledge of banking,  meet them with appropriate initiatives. This kind of 
most sustainable business idea. economic and legal disciplines by awarding several  interaction enables us at UniCredit to develop products 
FOCUS
Banking Academy scholarships every year. These scholarships are  and services that serve stakeholders and encourage 
offered to students who wish to deepen their  a balanced and collaborative approach to well-being, 
In Italy we developed our new Banking Academy, with 
Encouraging social inclusion studies abroad in pursuit of a Master or PhD  prosperity and growth. Our Group remains focused 
free financial education programmes and training on 
programme in economics or finance. In addition,  on understanding the daily needs of stakeholders and 
digitalisation and innovation. Our offer targets young 
In 2019, we continued to work on improving the  numerous grants are assigned to undergraduate  meeting them effectively, at the same time helping to 
people, families, elderly, entrepreneurs and non-profit 
social welfare and well-being of our communities.  students for short periods of study abroad and for  solve urgent national challenges.
organisations. 
The emissions related to the printing and distribution of the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 
Our efforts included the promotion of fundraising  summer internships abroad in UniCredit branches.
For individuals and SMEs, our In-Formati programme  and the 2019 Integrated Report have been compensated with the support of Ofﬁcinæ Verdi, which uses Gold Standard credits 
activities and culture in all its forms. The Foundation is also committed to providing  In Italy, as partners in the Italian Alliance for 
involved roughly 6,900 participants in 200 training  gained through the development of a programme for biogas production for domestic usage in Kenya. Material topics
fellowships and research grants annually to support  Sustainable Development (Alleanza Italiana per lo 
sessions on banking and on entrepreneurship, while  The Gold Standard is supported by WWF as it is the most rigorous 
Gift Matching Programme the best European researchers in the fields of  Sviluppo Sostenibile or ASviS), we contributed to 
our Save4You lessons gave over 5,200 participants  global certiﬁcation standard for carbon offset projects.
This is our main employee community involvement  economic, banking and financial sciences. Some  organising their 2019 Sustainable Development 
the opportunity to focus on savings and investments.
activity. In 2019 the 17th edition was aimed at  fellowships in particular are aimed at re-attracting  Festival to draw attention to the SDGs and help raise 
INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
In 2019 more than 2,500 companies participated in  supporting non-profit organisations engaged in  the best young economists back to Europe awareness on the United Nations’ 2030 agenda.
Digitalization and innovation
the three UniCredit Talk, discussions and networking  activities for children and adolescents up to their 18th 
events for experts, banks and entrepreneurs, about the  birthday. In addition to doubling employee donations,  Promoting cultural initiatives Our networking initiative Territorial Advisory Boards  Value to customer
new challenges linked to the digital revolution and their  UniCredit Foundation assigned a bonus to donations  UniCredit has a long tradition in supporting culture, in  provides advice for UniCredit’s seven regions in Italy. 
impact on organisational and business models with a  made by donors under 35 and by volunteers of the  particular music and art, as a way to promote social  Appointed by the UniCredit Board of Directors, these  LEAN AND SOLID BANK
specific focus on export, welfare and the digitalisation  organisation they supported. and economic growth. We actively support our local  boards provide feedback to our senior management,  Bank solidity
of SMEs.  The programme collected in total more than €820,000. communities through significant cultural initiatives,  assisting them in defining the business strategies 
Lean and transparent organization
In the last Talk, a new project called PMI Digital Lab  including select partnerships and sponsorships. and development plans in their respective regions 
was started in which Banking Academy, together  UniCredit Card E and strengthening UniCredit’s local reputation. 
PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
with other important national partners, participated  The Call for the Regions - Carta E 2019 was promoted  UniCredit’s most important cultural and social  Furthermore, the Boards select and design priorities 
with the aim of investing in the growth of SME  by UniCredit Foundation and focuses on supporting  partnership with Filarmonica della Scala has been  and projects to be discussed during the Forum dei  Employees' development
digital skills. In 2019 seven of the 10 planned stages  child and adolescent projects with a significant social  ongoing since 2000. In 2018-201C9o vite irn avonldv eInd tarobdouutc tion: UniCrTeedrritit So.rpi, .Am.eetings between our senior managers  Diversity and inclusion
were implemented, involving more than 200 SMEs  impact. 86,000 people during the concert seasSoonr taetr  Lpaa Sgceasl:a U niCredit Sa.npd.A m. ain local stakeholders. Approximately 1,300 
throughout Italy. The winning projects included initiatives for the  Theatre, Italian and internGartaiopnhailc t oduervse ilno pEmureonpet ,a nd compositpioanrt:i cMipearcnutsri wo eGrPe welcomed during the seven events 
ETHICS
With Go International! we offered seminars for  humanisation of pediatric wards, support for disabled  Open Filarmonica‘s special projects dedPicriantte:d C tPoZ  S.p.A. (Bergahmeold) in our regions in 2019.
Fair business behavior
entrepreneurs and export managers, focusing on topics  children and children in vulnerable situations and  music education for children, open rehearsals foAr pril 2020
Business ethics
such as export management, new technologies and  the promotion of a more conscious use of new  charity and two free concerts in Milan. Moreover, we organized a series of conferences to 
digitalisation. In 2019 this programme, through the  technologies.  Our lTohneg sIntatnedgirnagte pda rRtenpeorsrht iapn wdi tShu Aprpelneam dei nVte hroanvae  been madep raovvaidilea bislseu earts w wwithw .tuhnei ocrpepdoirttgurnoiutyp t.eou meet institutional 
Digital&Export Business School initiative, involved 34  This call was made possible thanks to UniCredit  Foundation starteda innd 1 a9l9s4o.  aWvea ialareb lae m foarj odro pwanrtlnoeard  by activatiinnvge stthoers Q frRo mco dalel  obveelro twh.e world: the Italian Investment  SYSTEMIC TRENDS
locations throughout Italy and connected approximately  Card E, the credit card where we donate part of our  of the Arena Opera Festival, one of the best-known    and High Yield Conference, the Italian Financial Debt  Cyber security
500 companies interested in opening or strengthening  commission to the social initiatives we support on  musical events in the world. The 97th edition in  Conference and the Convertible Bond Conference. Climate change
their presence on foreign markets. a national level. Since 2018 we have extended this  2019 involved more than 425,000 people
Demograﬁc change
mechanism to all our employees’ credit cards in Italy. • About 1,500 One-on-Ones and Group meetings
Over €2.5 million were collected during 2019. Art4Future •  Roughly 80 corporates and financial institutions 
YouIn  m20a1y9 a wlseo  srteaqruteeds tt raa ncsofpoyrm frionmg o: uUrn aiCrtr epdoirtt f-o Glioro up Sustainabilinitvyo Plviaezdza Gae Aulenti, 20154 Milan, Italy POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
In Germany we provide financial knowledge and  to focus on contemporary art, weit-hm tahiel:  pgrroogurpesssuisvtea inability@u•n  Micorerde itth.eaun 300 international institutional  Positive impact on society
quality information on key topics and latest trends  sale of UniCredit’s local artworks in Italy, Germany  investors participating.
in financial services, markets and business concepts  and Austria. Some art pieces will be donated to local 
through channels such as dossiers.hypovereinsbank. museums. The proceeds will primarily be reinvested  In Austria we organised conferences, webinars and 
de and hypovereinsbank-publikationen.de. We  in Social Impact Banking initiatives. The rest of  updates on several interesting topics such as real estate 
continued to support young start-ups and founders  the proceeds will be dedicated to other important  financial outlook, cash management trends and ESG 
with a number of different intense training  projects including the support of emerging artists.  loan initiatives with more than 900 participants.
programmes thanks to our BayStartUp, Bavaria’s  We see this as a positive transformation of our art 
leading network for start-up formation, coaching,  portfolio as it allows us to support emerging new  We organised the third edition of UniCredit CEE Forum. 
financing and acceleration, initiated and supported by  talent and play a role in encouraging the evolution  This is a flagship event for Central and Eastern Europe 
the Bavarian Ministry of Economics. All together 78  of art in our communities. (CEE) CIB and private banking clients, representing an 
workshops were supported. international platform where different companies can 
2019 Integrated Report
76 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 77