Our Strategy Our Strategy
→ Social and relationship Capital → Social and relationship Capital
SOCIAL IMPACT BANKING1
MICROCREDIT
The Social Impact Banking (SIB) project was launched in Italy at the end of 2017 to boost UniCredit’s commitment to building a fairer and  APPROACH
more inclusive society. 
We support start-ups and small businesses at risk of financial exclusion, providing them with a tailor-made microcredit offer and with 
Its aim is to identify, finance and promote people and enterprises that are generally excluded from traditional banking products yet that 
capacity building support through our skills and the networking ability provided by our volunteers and online platforms.
are capable of generating a measurable positive social impact on communities. 
We work closely with partner organisations (such as social and trade associations, NGOs, public institutions), clients and especially with our 
colleagues, who are the key driving force behind our initiatives, to build valuable networks within the communities where our bank operates.
ACHIEVEMENTS
By sharing positive experiences and raising awareness of significant projects, we increase their potential societal impact and help them to grow.
Italy:
TARGET 2,886 57.1
 loans €  m disbursed
1
€  billion  Financial inclusion index: 
approving  32%
representing  1,484 310 
of total financing by 2023 microentrepreneurs  beneficiaries   high risk2 basic education5
are women having at  1,331 115 
76 least one of   new co3 foreign
%
the following  320 92 
vulnerability   young age4 unemployed or inactive
ACHIEVEMENTS AND CONTRIBUTION TO SDGs characteristics:
2,959 
loans provided  129
€   m 
to support  disbursed 93   140 214 
projects /  around 
microenterprises  partners involved volunteerstrained microentrepreneurs 
 
(e.g. Fondazione Grameen Italia,  to support customers supported by our  
Fondazione Don Mario Operti) partners/volunteers
5.1 48.5 0.8
€ m € m € m
Capacity building initiatives:
555
7.0  hours of training thanks to an online dedicated platform on how to write a business plan
61.4 6.2 € m and
€ m € m
financial education  International:
initiatives
8
8  transactions concluded in Austria 
Creation of partnerships  Extension to    €163,000
for the goals other Group countries  for a total of 
SCOPE ER Italy
T  An entrepreneur benefitted from microcredit to start a craft brewery where he employed ex-prisoners from 
T
During 2019, the Group SIB approach was extended to 10 other countries, maintaining consistency with the defined model.   MA the Rebibbia prison in Rome. Along with the former prisoners and several volunteers, a young brewer has also 
All banks followed the model in its entirety with limited exceptions. T  been employed. In addition to the production laboratory, the social enterprise has opened a pub to favour the 
A
H rehabilitation in society of its employees. Even in product research, the company relies on circular economy 
T
126.1 S  principles, using ingredients recovered from mass retail food waste.
€  m E
RI
O Austria
ST  Thanks to the support provided by our programme, two immigrant-origin microentrepreneurs were able to 
respectively expand a restaurant and successfully set up a pastry shop. This support made a clear upgrade of a 
disadvantaged district possible as well as helping a young girl to step into self-employment and realise her dream.
2.9 2. Belonging to Standard & Poor’s vulnerable risk clusters from B to CCC.
€  m 3. Set up 3 years or less from the date of the disbursement of the loan.
4. Under 30.
1. Disbursed loans reported as cumulative values from the beginning of the project to 2019. 5. Compulsory school education level.
80 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 81