Our Strategy Our Strategy
→ Social and relationship Capital → Social and relationship Capital
SOCIAL IMPACT BANKING
IMPACT FINANCING FINANCIAL EDUCATION AND INCLUSION
APPROACH APPROACH
We provide financial and other types of support to entrepreneurial initiatives that respond to the main social needs arising from our communities. We promote financial awareness initiatives to support early-stage micro-businesses and social enterprises, as well as encourage the 
We reward projects that demonstrate a clear social impact through financial benefits (grants, lower interest payments, etc.) and extra  development of a financial and business culture among certain vulnerable segments of the population, especially young people and people 
services (mentorship, training, etc.) using a pay-for-success approach. We aim to promote cohesion between private companies and  at risk of social exclusion.
non-profit organisations.
ACHIEVEMENTS ACHIEVEMENTS
Italy: Italy:
Start Up Your Life
61 69  
 loans €  m disbursed nationwide educational programme for high schools, recognised by the Ministry of Education, University and Research
38,600
300  students have been participating in the 
1,223  2,200 
health and welfare   schools involved programme since its launch in the 2017-2018 school year
5605%% sceacreto frosr,  tinh ep ealrdtiecrulyla r  11% eadnudc taratiionnin g new hirings  colleagues   more than 2,000,000 
and disabled  foreseen as a result  participated in training  450
of the financed projects  and engagement activities training hours delivered during the past two editions  volunteer tutors involved in the training
job inclusion of  social housing, 
20% disadvantaged  9% conservation of  8 470
categories cultural heritage  other educational initiatives reaching more than   beneficiaries delivered together with other partners and associations
€5m minibond 
Subscription of a   
issued by the social enterprise Codess to support the company  International:
36 77 growth, the refurbishment of three carehomes for the elderly and 
% %
the start-up of four new carehomes in the Veneto region
granted to  loans matched using the 
new customers pay-for-success mechanism
Project implementation planned in all countries of the SIB international perimeter 
16
 initiatives 
Capacity building initiatives and agreements:
activated
Agreement with Legacoop to support businesses, projects and entrepreneurial initiatives aimed at generating a positive  75
% students
and measurable social impact on the community
MakeYourImpact: call to provide financial and non-financial support to social enterprises promoting social impact projects 3,068 23
 beneficiaries:  % vulnerable categories
International:
2
4 % entrepreneurs
 operations completed in Germany, Austria, Bulgaria, and Romania for 
9 €2.75 m 218
Extension to    a total of  , mainly focused on assistance to the elderly,   volunteers
other Group countries  support for mental disability and the inclusion of vulnerable categories
R Italy
E
R Italy T  Launched in the school year 2017-2018, the Start Up Your Life programme offers financial education, 
E T
TT An innovative start-up since 2015 has been creating, implementing and selling a digital programme based on  MA entrepreneurial education and orientation tools towards future studies and/or job. Contents are delivered by a 
MA the potential development of parenting and caring skills as the foundations for building leadership practices.  T  dedicated online platform and are enriched by class training provided by bank or volunteer trainers as well as 
T  It is dedicated to those who work and have, or are about to have, young children. Between 2016 and 2018 the  HA by speeches of entrepreneurs and top managers. Every year the schools that worked on project activities are 
ES THA n35um cobmerp oafn vieosl utnhtaete tro mdaeym obffeerrs  t(hthiso tsyep we hoof  trreacieniivnegd t tor athineiinr ge)m inpclroeyaeseesd. from 783 to 3,450 in Italy for a total of  RIES T iantv UitneidC rteod pita Mrtiiclaipna htee aind qau anratteiorsn awlh ceornet tehset;  Iitna l2y 0C1o9- CwEeO sa wanadrd oetdh e1r2 s secnhiooro mls aanta agne rasw haorsdt ecde r1e2m0o sntyu doergnatsn iasnedd  
RI TO teachers.
O Bulgaria S
T
S  We disbursed €1 million to a foundation the mission of which is to provide the resources to support, motivate  Germany
 Significant financial education initiatives are carried out in partnership with Joblinge (a collaboration of the private, 
and strengthen young LGBT+ people. The specific initiative financed by SIB aims to combat stigma faced by young 
public and volunteer sectors to better prepare disadvantaged young people for the job market). During a 6-month 
people, bullying and homophobia through the creation of a community centre that will include a bar/bistro, a 
programme young people can prove themselves and their skills in a real-life context, far from school grades and 
multi-functional space for events, a co-working area, a theatre, a cinema, a club and a library. The community will 
conventional job interviews. SIB offers workshops on financial education; in 2019, after successful training sessions 
also include separate offices offering educational and psychological assistance by an expert team.
with positive feedback, these workshops have now become an integral part of the regular Joblinge programme in 
13 German cities.
82 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 83