Intellectual Capital Our Strategy
→ Intellectual Capital
Advance digitally with  MATERIAL 
streamlined collaboration between software  TOPICS
customer-centric focus  development and operations, and automation, to 
facilitate the delivery of high quality, timely and 
effective ICT solutions. 
We are investing in our information and communications technology (ICT) systems, our  Robust and secure ICT structures have always been 
internal processes and our ability to innovate in order to transform UniCredit’s operating  fundamental to the efficacy of our processes and  A central pillar of UniCredit’s digital transformation 
model and provide a better customer experience. the advancement of our service model. Investing in  is our mobile banking channel which we target as 
these measures is core to our new Team 23 strategic  a best-in-class customer experience. In 2019 we 
plan1 which is strongly focused on migration towards  successfully converged our Italian and German mobile 
OUR STOCKS OF CAPITAL direct, digital channels, for example aiming for 60  banking applications into a single global app which 
percent digital users across our individuals customer  was rolled out to local retail customers, with Austria 
base by 2023. During the course of the strategic plan  to follow in the first half of 2020. This has not only 
we will be committing on average €900 million per  achieved a more user-friendly, seamless banking 
The emissions related to the printing and distribution of the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 
annum to IT improvements. experience and universal app enhancements across 
SECURE  EFFICIENT  and the 2019 Integrated Report have been compensated with the suppotrht eosfe O cfoﬁucnintræie sV ienrcdliu, dwinhgic phr eu saensd G poolsdt  Sstaalensd parrodd curcetdsi ts 
CAPACITY  Material topics
AND EFFECTIVE  AND EFFECTIVE  TO INNOVATE gained through the development of a programme for biogasa pnrdo sdeurcvtiicoens  sfourc hd oams ienssttiacl museangte p iany Kmeennytas., but has 
ICT SYSTEMS PROCESSES Stepping up ouThr eI CGoTld Standard is supported by WWF asa listo i ss etchuer emdo ismt priogrotaronut sIC T synergies in the spirit of 
global certiﬁcation standard for carbon offset projects.
One Bank, One UniCredit.
We successfully finalised our Transform 2019 
INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
strategic plan objectives to rationalise and  Our mobile leadership drive in Central and Eastern 
Digitalization and innovation
consolidate our IT architecture and infrastructure,  Europe (CEE) also progressed with our Mobile 
Value to customer
harmonising across geographies and business areas.  First project. We applied an innovative front-end 
development framework comprising state-of-the-
RESULTS art technologies and extended the ICT architecture  LEAN AND SOLID BANK
Actions undertaken in the period of the 
• Successful ﬁnalisation of Transform 2019 ICT infrastructure rationalisation objectives to accommodate increasing user volumes and  Bank solidity
plan include the decommissioning of:
• Dematerialization of all cashier desk transactions in Italy best manage operational risk whilst preserving 
Lean and transparent organization
• Rollout of single mobile banking app in Italy and Germany, with Austria to follow in 2020 quality and reducing time-to-market of releases. 
over 1,700 servers  Technology from Meniga2, a best-in-class digital 
PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
banking fintech, was also integrated, enabling 
more than 1,500 applications  more data-driven, client-tailored content. With 154  Employees' development
COMMUNITY IMPACTS Cover and Introduction: UniCrfeudnict tSio.pn.aAl.ities available in 9 CEE countries, such as  Diversity and inclusion
Sorter pages: UniCredit Sc.apr.dA .management and spending analytics, the Mobile 
BUSINESS CONTINUITY  Graphic development and compositFioirns:t  Mapeprc purroiov iGdePs a modern customer experience  ETHICS
AND SECURITY We also accelerated our cloud adoptionP jroiunrtn: eCyP Zw Sh.ipch.A . (Bergawmhoi)lst simplifying everyday banking.
Fair business behavior
included setting up a private cloud farm on premApisreils 2 020
Business ethics
running over 4,000 virtual desktops for developers,  In 2019 we also instated our Group Chief Information 
supporTthineg I nqtueigckraetre tdu rRneaproourtn adn odf  SICuTp psolelumteionnts h. ave been madeO affivcaeil aabnlde  Garto wupw wCh.uienfi cSreecduitrgitryo uOpf.fiecue, previously 
SIMPLIFIED CUSTOMER  and also available for download by activatain sgin tghlee  QfuRn ccotidoen ,b aenlodw e.stablished the role of  SYSTEMIC TRENDS
EXPERIENCE Feedback collected through our Internal Service    General Manager of UniCredit Services, our global  Cyber security
Quality (ISQ) survey regarding IT services has been  services company. These organisational changes are 
Climate change
instrumental to identifying areas of improvement  important enablers of success in meeting our ICT 
Demograﬁc change
CUSTOMISED PRODUCTS  within our processes. In 2019 the percentage of  and ICT security objectives, strengthening execution 
AND SERVICES satisfied respondents to the survey improved by 8  and control. Furthermore, we are investing in skills 
Ypoeurc menaty v aelrssou sre 2q0u1e8st,  fao lcloopwyin fgro tmhe:  UpnoisCitrievdei tt r-e Gndro up Sustainabdielivtey lPopiamzzean Gt,a ees tAaublleisnhtii,n 2g0 d1e5d4ic Matieladn t,r aItianliyng paths  POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
recorded the previous year. Moreeo-vmera, iwl: eg raocuhpiesvuesdta inability@ufnoirc creodmitp.eeutencies which are essential to advancing  Positive impact on society
an approximate 40 percent reduction in ICT major  our efforts in these areas.3
incident occurrences in 2019 versus 2018, thanks to 
streamlining processes and increasing resilience. 
Fortifying our ICT security
Applying innovative ways of working to our ICT set 
up is also beneficial. In 2019 we initiated productive  Cyber-crime is a growing concern for the financial sector 
TARGETS application of our Development and Operations  and beyond, requiring a high level of presidium to 
(DevOps) project capabilities, which leverages  protect client and company data and assets.4
• 60 percent digital banking users amongst individuals customers by 2023
• Progressive rollout of our Paperless Bank programme across our geographies by 2023
1. Refer to the Strategic Plan chapter for more information.
2. Refer to the 2018 Integrated Report for more information.
3. Refer to the Human Capital chapter for more information.
2019 Integrated Report
4. Refer to the Risk Management and Compliance chapter for more information.
84 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 85