Natural Capital Our Strategy
→ Natural Capital
Execute an effective  Promote business that  MATERIAL 
TOPICS
supports natural capital
environmental strategy
The Earth’s natural resources and the countless services they provide make human life  UniCredit is committed to protecting natural  At UniCredit, we are always open to business 
possible. The bank’s activities have an impact on natural capital and must therefore be  capital. Sustainability has been fully integrated  opportunities that arise from the need to address 
monitored and limited. into our new strategic plan Team 23. As natural  environmental challenges. 
capital underpins a more equitable and just 
society, green finance has correctly been defined 
OUR STOCKS OF CAPITAL by the EU as finance to support economic growth  Shifting to a low-carbon economy
while reducing pressures on the environment and 
taking social and governance aspects into account.  As climate change is the key challenge of our time, 
Accordingly, instruments originally meant to serve  we seek to address the issues it poses through a 
The emissions related to the printing and distribution of the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 
green goals, have recently been designed to cover  two-pronged approach: firstly by setting up quantitative 
SOIL, WATER, and the 2019 Integrated Report have been compensated with the support of Ofﬁcinæ Verdi, which uses Gold Standard credits 
AIR a broader Environmental, Social and Governance  targets aligning our portfolio to UN climate goals  Material topics
FLORA AND gained through the development of a programme for biogas production for domestic usage in Kenya.
QUALITY (ESG) boundary which we present within the  and secondly, with our commitment to reducing our 
CONSERVATION FAUNA natural capital conTthexe tG. old Standard is supported by WWF aso pite rias ttiohnea ml eomstis rsiigoonrso oufs g reenhouse gases. 
CONSERVATION
global certiﬁcation standard for carbon offset projects.
UniCredit aims to play a central role in facilitating  With the aim to supporting our clients in their shift to 
INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
the transition to a more sustainable economy and  a low-carbon economy, in 2019 we endorsed the Task 
Digitalization and innovation
sees sustainable finance as a mean to achieve this  Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
Value to customer
RESULTS goal.  recommendations.2
• €6.9 billion exposure to the renewable energy sector
In this respect, UniCredit has set up a Sustainable  Furthermore we are among the group of banks who  LEAN AND SOLID BANK
• -55% in Scope 1 and 2 emissions since the base year
•  € 707 million energy efﬁciency outstanding loans to Western Europe SME Finance Advisory Team within the Corporate  agreed on road testing the Paris Agreement Capital  Bank solidity
& Investment Banking Division. Combining  Transition Assessment (PACTA) methodology developed 
•  joint bookrunner in 29 green bond issues Lean and transparent organization
sustainability expertise with capital markets  by 2° Investing Initiative (2°ii).3 The project will match 
capabilities, the new team aims to deepen client  economic assets with unlisted financial assets in order 
PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
engagement on ESG related topics and facilitate  to verify the alignment of our lending portfolio to the 
COMMUNITY IMPACTS their access to Europe’s sustainable financing  Paris Agreement reference trajectory, setting the basis  Employees' development
market. Furthermore, the team Ciso vaedrv aisnidn gIn troduction: UniCrfeodr iat  2S°.pC .sAc.enario analysis as recommended by the TCFD.  Diversity and inclusion
clients on brown-to-green transitionS sotrrtaetre pgaiegse s: UniCredit SW.pit.hA .regard to climate-related sectors, we issued a new 
whilst supporting the origGinraapthioicn  doefv EeSloGp fmineannt caen d compositpioonlic: yM oenr cAurrcitoic G aPnd Non-Conventional Oil & Gas Industry 
AIR QUALITY CONSERVATION ETHICS
mandates with corporates, financials Parnindt : CPZ S.p.A. (BergaSmeoct)or and we improved our policy in the coal sector.4
Fair business behavior
Sovereigns, Supranationals and Agencies (SSAAsp)r il 2020
Business ethics
across the value chain. 
 PROMOTE BUSINESS THAT The Integrated Report and Supplement have been madeS auvpaiplaobrlet aint gw wrwe.nuneiwcreadbitlgero eupn.eeurgy sources
SUPPORTS NATURAL CAPITAL The Sustainable Finaanndc ael sAod vaivsaoilrayb Tlee afmor  diso awlnsolo ad by activating the QR code below. SYSTEMIC TRENDS
responsible for ensuring that relevant transactions   We are continuing to invest in renewable energy  Cyber security
in the Group comply with the Equator Principles,  sources. As at December 2019, our portfolio of 
Climate change
the financial industry benchmark for determining,  renewable energy projects was valued at €6.9 billion.5 
Demograﬁc change
assessing and managing environmental and social  Overall, the largest portion of our financing for 
 RAISE AWARENESS
risk in projects.1 renewable projects goes to photovoltaic plants, with a 
You may also request a copy from: UniCredit - Group Sustainabsihliatrye  Poifa 5zz1a p Gearcee Anut.l Wenitnid, 2 e0n1e5rg4y  Mcoilmanp,r iIstaesly  POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
e-mail: groupsustainability@u3n8ic preedrcite.netu of the portfolio with other renewable  Positive impact on society
energy sources making up the remaining 11 percent. 
TARGETS
• -80% GHG emissions by 2030
• 25% increase in exposure to renewable energy sector by 2023
1. Refer to the Supplement – Risk Management and Compliance section for more information.
• 34% increase in energy efﬁciency loans to Western Europe SMEs by 2023 2. Refer to the TCFD section for more information. 
• Achieve Top 5 league table position in EMEA  combined Green Bonds and ESG-linked loans 3. The 2° Investing Initiative (2°ii) is the global think tank for developing climate and long-term risk metrics and related policy options in financial markets.
4. Refer to the Risk Management and Compliance chapter for more information.
5. E xpressed in terms of Exposure at Default. The significant decrease compared to 2018 is mainly due to the absence of the contribution of Yapı ve Kredi Bankası AŞ 
following the reduction of UniCredit stake in the company. 2019 Integrated Report
88 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 89