Our Strategy Our Strategy
→ Natural Capital → Natural Capital
Renewable energy portfolio, 2019 the European Covered Bond Council (ECBC) and the  MATERIAL 
emissions by 60 percent by 2020, while the longer  energy efficiency, pollution prevention, eating  TOPICS
European Mortgage Federation (EMF), and funded 
term target is a reduction of 80 percent by 2030.9  habits and raising awareness further. UniCredit 
via the European Commission’s Horizon 2020 
In 2019, we achieved an overall reduction of 55  has appointed its Millenial Board11 to oversee the 
Programme. EEMI aims to deliver a standardised 
percent compared to our 2008 Scope 1 and 2  comprehensive review and implementation of 
European framework and data collection architecture 
€6.9 bn emissions. these initiatives. 
51%
for energy-efficient mortgages with favourable 
Photovoltaic financing conditions for energy-efficient buildings,  GHG emissions trend
During 2019 the Plastic-free project was launched. 
energy-saving renovations and anti-seismic 
100% UniCredit is distributing re-usable metal drinking 
measures. In the Italian market, thanks also to the 
bottles across the Group to reduce plastic bottles 
representative role on behalf of the Italian Banking 
80% use. All single-use plastic used in break areas 
Association (ABI) in the Steering Committee of ECBC, 
and canteens will be removed from all UniCredit 
UniCredit is, together with the Italian representative 
buildings by 2023. These actions will bring a 
of the EMF’s Executive Committee, one of two  60% -20%
reduction of approximately 7 million plastic bottles 
coordinators for the Italian market hub. Such hub  The emissions related to the printing and distribution of the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 
11% is attended, among others, by banks, insurance  and the 201490 %Integrated Report have been compensated with the suppoprte ro fy eOafﬁr cinin Iæta lVye ardloi,n we,h sicahv iunsge asb Gooultd  5S0ta0n tdoanrsd  ocfr edits 
CO. Furthermore, thanks to the purchase of 40,000 
Other institutions, engineers, construction companies  gained through the development of a programme for biogas pr2oduction for domestic usage in Kenya. Material topics
renewable 38% -55% carbon neutral certified bottles, about 400 trees will 
sources Wind and utilities interested in energy requalification.  20% The Gold Standard is supported by WWF asb eit  pisla tnhtee dm tohsrto ruiggohr tohues  partnership with Treedom,12 
Its leading position within the Italian market hub  global certiﬁcation standard for carbon offset projects.
an online platform which allows to choose a tree 
facilitated UniCredit in designing agreements and  2008 -60%
and follow its plantation.
products addressed to energy requalification in Italy’s  INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
2012
In our new strategic plan Team 23, we have committed  buildings, already finalised in 2019. Unicredit is one  Digitalization and innovation
to increasing our exposure to the renewable energy  of the 52 lending institutions participating in the pilot  2019 Increasing energy efficiency Value to customer
sector by 25 percent by 2023 (to greater than €9 billion). phase launched in June 2018 in order to reach the 
2020
definition of green mortgage,6 achieved during 2019. 
One of our main initiatives to reduce energy  LEAN AND SOLID BANK
We are also one of the founders of Energy Efficiency 
In 2019 we renewed our commitment to using new  consumption is making UniCredit’s premises more  Bank solidity
Financial Institutions Group (EEFIG).7
Promoting sustainable financial  technologies to reduce the environmental footprint,  energy-efficient thanks to the last years actions. 
Lean and transparent organization
instruments  costs and emissions of our operations. In 2019 we  Among the various methods used to monitor and 
Our strategic plan Team 23 aims at increasing energy 
closed 82 branches as we further reduced our office  manage UniCredit’s energy consumption in Italy, 
efficiency loans to customers, by 34 percent for  PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
UniCredit, lead manager of the first ever green bond,  space by 63,000 square meters in Western Europe.  we have installed centralised remote-controlled 
Western Europe (WEU) SMEs and by 25 percent for 
continues to play a central role in this fast developing  Since the launch of Transform 2019, we had recorded  Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC)  Employees' development
WEU individuals, while in Central Estern Europe (CEE) 
market. In 2019 we acted as joint bookrunner in 29 issues  a reduction of our office space amCoovuenrt ianngd t oIn 3tr5o2d,0uc0t0io n: UniCrseydsitte Sm.ps.A in. about 1,000 branches and energy  Diversity and inclusion
our target is at least 6 percent for new origination of 
for an overall placement of €22 billion. Over the year, we  square meters and the closure of 963 Sborartnecrh peasg. eWse:  UniCredit Sm.po.Ani.toring devices in 800 branches. In particular, 
energy efficiency loans. 
also saw growing demand for green and sustainability- thereby surpassed our origGinraalp Thriacn dsefovremlo p2m01e9n tp alannd  composittihone :f Moremrceurr isoy sGtPems are used to remotely control 
ETHICS
linked loans and credit facilities. UniCredit played a  objectives by 2 percent and 6 percent rePsripnetc: tCivPeZl yS. .p.A. (Bergaamnod) optimise HVAC operation and thermal 
Fair business behavior
bookrunner role in a total of 20 transactions for an overall  In 2019, UniCredit traded almost 200 tons of CO  Our Team 23 plan envisages a further reductionA opfr il 2020 comfort. Both systems detect energy consumption 
2
amount of roughly €31 billion. As clearly stated in our  valued at roughly €4.8 billion in the EU Emission  the space we occupy. anomalies, which are transmitted to system  Business ethics
new strategic plan Team 23, we aim to achieve Top 5  Trading System market.  The Integrated Report and Supplement have been madep raovvaiidlaebrsle t aot b wew rews.uonlvicerde.d Fitoglrloouwpin.egu European 
league table position in EMEA (Europe, Middle East, and  In 2019, in Austria wea rneddu aclesdo  oauvra eilnaebrgley  fcoorn dsuomwpntliooand  by activatDinirge cthtiev eQ R2 0c1od2e/2 b7e/lEoUw .on energy efficiency, during  SYSTEMIC TRENDS
Africa) combined Green Bonds and ESG-linked loans. Reduce our environmental impact by 55 percent versus 2018, especially thanks to spaces    2019 UniCredit completed the Energy Audit on  Cyber security
optimization10 and actions of energy efficiency. 25 sites. This audit was aimed at identifying 
Climate change
UniCredit’s solid governance system guides its  new energy efficiency interventions to improve 
Demograﬁc change
Financing energy efficiency behaviour in favour of conserving natural capital,  the energy performance in our bulidings to be 
which is consistent with its commitment to prevent  Raising awareness on environmental  implemented during Team 23.
As at 2019, our loans to SMEs through subsidised  and mitigate any environmental impact of our  Yiomu pmaacy talso request a copy from: UniCredit - Group Sustainability Piazza Gae Aulenti, 20154 Milan, Italy POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
programmes in Western Europe (WEU) amounted  operations and lending activities.8 Our Group holds  e-mail: groupsustainability@uWniec raerdei tc.eountinuing to making our data centres  Positive impact on society
to €707 million, while to individuals to more than  ISO 14001 certification through UniCredit Bank  UniCredit launched an awareness campaign on  more energy-efficient. Although they are subject 
€1 billion.  Austria AG and UniCredit Bank Czech Republic and  environmental impact for all employees. All  to annual increases in use for IT-related activities, 
Slovakia. Furthermore, UniCredit SpA is registered  the colleagues joined this year’s Global Week of  their cooling systems, new uninterruptible 
UniCredit’s commitment to EU energy efficiency  under the EMAS Regulation. Climate Action by working together on September  power supplies (UPSs) and overall engineering 
targets is also demonstrated by its engagement with  20 and coming up with over 1,200 ideas on how  are designed to avoid any increase in energy 
industry initiatives. One such initiative is the Energy  Regarding our climate strategy, our two targets are  to protect our climate. These proposals ranged  consumption even as they meet heavier demand. 
Efficient Mortgages Initiative (EEMI), promoted by  short and long-term: the first is to reduce our carbon  from recycling and waste management to mobility,  In 2019 the recorded power consumption at our 
6.  Green mortgages are intended to finance the purchase/construction and/or renovation of both residential (single family & multi-family) and commercial  9. The Scope 2 component of Group GHG emission reduction targets refers to emissions calculated in accordance with the location-based method.
buildings where there is evidence of: 1 energy performance which meets or exceeds relevant market best practice standards in line with current EU legislative  10. Refer to the 2018 Integrated Report for more information. 
requirements and/or (2) an improvement in energy performance of at least 30 percent. 11. Refer to the Human Capital Chapter for more information.
7. Refer to http://www.eefig.com/index.php for more information. 12. More information is available at https://www.treedom.net/en/page/about_us.
8. Refer to the Risk Management and Compliance Chapter for more information.
2019 Integrated Report
90 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 91