Our Strategy Our Strategy
→ Natural Capital → Natural Capital
MATERIAL 
2 data centres in Verona was in fact 20.7 million  Cars assigned for business and personal use are  Cutting consumption Sourcing responsibly TOPICS
kWh and 15.1 million kWh respectively, which  subject to strict rules in Italy. Cars must be in line 
puts the performance of our UPSs at the top of  with or exceed the European emission standards  By reducing consumption of materials, we can  UniCredit’s suppliers must meet certain minimum 
the efficiency curve, resulting in a slightly lower  protocol in force. Spiders, convertibles, coupés,  increase our overall sustainability. A prime area for  sustainability requirements and are selected 
consumption than the previous year. Activities for  pick-ups and sports cars are not allowed.  reduction is the use of paper which we can limit  according to the standards of the International 
further savings are already planned for 2020. Data  A pilot project was launched in 2019 for the  by making greater use of digitalised processes and  Labour Organisation (ILO) relating to fundamental 
centre’s power usage effectiveness (PUE) ratio are  E-charging stations across some Italian Head  services.14 human rights, child labour, freedom of association, 
shown below.13 Offices.  working conditions, equal pay, health and safety 
Our Centralised Document Dematerialisation (CDD)  and business ethics. Suppliers must also comply 
PUE ratios The pilot project included a gradual replacement  project aims to make handling branch documents  with the standards set out in our Environmental 
1.70 of traditional fuel cars with new electric and hybrid  more efficient and secure by developing a  Policy. 
Verona1 - 1.65 1.63 vehicles and the installation of charging stations to  management process based on a new IT platform. 
Monte Bianco
be used for corporate cars.  The project is based on scanning and digitally 
1.43
1.38 1.37 storiTnhge c eomntirsasciotn dso rceulamteedn ttso  athned  ptrrainntsinagc taionnd  distribution of the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 
Verona2 - 
and the 2019 Integrated Report have been compensated with the support of Ofﬁcinæ Verdi, which uses Gold Standard credits 
Basson According to our data, the widespread adoption of  confirmations in order to create a highly  Material topics
1.36 gained through the development of a programme for biogas production for domestic usage in Kenya.
1.32 1.35 flexible working solutions in Italy has saved over 5  automated data system. 
Munich   million km in employee commuter travel over the 4  The Gold Standard is supported by WWF as it is the most rigorous 
Tucher Park global certiﬁcation standard for carbon offset projects.
2017 2018 2019 years since their inception. This process began with a pilot phase in January 
2017 which digitalised selected contracts. It is 
INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
UniCredit believes the use of renewable energy  in place for all branch finance documents (e.g. 
Digitalization and innovation
is vital for tackling global climate change. In  deposit forms and government bonds purchases). 
FOCUS
Value to customer
2019 nearly all of the electricity purchased in  Mobility management Austria As at 2019, the CDD securely stored almost 26 
Italy, Germany and Austria came from renewable  million documents. The CDD is further supported 
The new Climate Protection with Business Trips, 
energy sources: 100 percent in Italy, 100 percent in  by FirmaMia15 which our customers can use to  LEAN AND SOLID BANK
Vehicle Fleets & Co. report by the environmental 
Germany and 92 percent in Austria. At Group level  organisation Greenpeace has carefully examined  digitally sign their routine in-branch documents. Bank solidity
renewable sources represent 81 percent of total   
business trips and work routes within the Austrian  Lean and transparent organization
electricity consumption. UniCredit commits that 
financial sector. Bank Austria is positively  FirmaMia 2019
all electricity consumption in buildings in Italy, 
highlighted in this relationship, among other 
PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
Germany and Austria will come from renewable 
aspects, for logistics and the general organisation  15.6 million documents 
sources by 2023. Employees' development
of its new headquarters. In fact, Austria Campus 
digitally sigCnoveedr and Introduction: UniCredit S.p.A. Diversity and inclusion
is a best practice model owing to its many 
Sorter pages: UniCredit S.p.A.
Managing mobility  eco-friendly solutions: 587 Gtoranpsh ioc fd pevaeploepr msaenvte adnd composition: Mercurio GP
• optimal connection with public transport ETHICS
Print: CPZ S.p.A. (Bergamo)
• filling stations for electric vehicles in parking lots Fair business behavior
We are continuing to promote smart solutions  April 2020
• concept that promotes work from home
Business ethics
that enable remote meetings. Desktop video  In alignment with our Team 23 plan targets, the 
• numerous parking spaces for bicycles.
communication tools are available for all branch  ItalianT rheeta Iinl tneegtrwatoerdk  Rweilpl obret  panapde Srulepspsl ebmy tehnet  sheacvoen bde en made available at www.unicreditgroup.eu
managers and, in some countries such as Austria  half of 2020, for whaant dco anlcseor anvsa kielayb plero fdour cdtosw Anulsotarida  by activating the QR code below. SYSTEMIC TRENDS
Bank Austria is also sending a strong signal on the 
and Russia, for all staff. All employees at UniCredit  subject of business travel. In fact, out of all the  and Germany will be paperless by 2021 and CEE by   Cyber security
headquarters have access to video conference  2023.
financial institutions of the Report, it achieved the  Climate change
facilities and state-of-the-art video technology has 
highest reduction in the number of business trips,  Demograﬁc change
been widely adopted for online meetings. 
equal to three quarters of journeys in the period 
2008-2018, a result which even exceeded the target 
Our Group travel policy encourages the use of  You may also request a copy from: UniCredit - Group Sustainability Piazza Gae Aulenti, 20154 Milan, Italy POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
set. In the same period total CO emissions fell by 
public transport. For example, the train is always  2 e-mail: groupsustainability@unicredit.eu Positive impact on society
about 65 percent, a goal Bank Austria achieved by 
recommended as opposed to the aeroplane. During 
declaring rail transport - provided connections are 
2019 we were able to reduce travel costs by 3 
available - the compulsory means of transport within 
percent compared to previous year.
Austria for employee business trips.
14. Refer to the Intellectual Capital chapter for more information.
13. The ratio of total power used by the data centre to the power used for IT processing.  15. Refer to the 2015 Integrated Report for more information.
2019 Integrated Report
92 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 93