Task Force on Climate-related  Our Strategy
→ Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
MATERIAL 
Governance TOPICS
For several years now UniCredit has been working  The Head of Group Institutional Affairs and 
Sustainability matters to us and we consider it a key lever for our future business strategies  on Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG)  Sustainability presents specific topics to the CGN&S 
and an essential component of our bank’s success. For this reason since November 2019  topics and has made significant investments in  Committee after sharing the contents with the CEO and 
we have supported the recommendations of the TCFD, created by the Financial Stability  terms of managerial attention to them, especially  reports on implementation progress.
in the field of governance. 
Board (FSB), which aims at developing voluntary, consistent climate-related financial risk 
A great effort was dedicated to the preparation of the 
disclosures for use by companies in providing information to stakeholders.
As with ESG issues at large, climate change is dealt  Team 23 strategic plan, as 2019 was the final year of the 
with by a dedicated Board committee created in  former plan Transform 2019. During this process climate 
2016 and in charge of ESG topics.  change was an important part of the discussion.
The iTnhcelu esmioinss oiof nssu sretlaainteadb itloit tyh aem proinngtisntg t ahned d duitsitersib ution of Itnh efa 2c0t,1 s9t aArntinnuga wl Ritehp tohrte  arenqdu Aircecmouennttss  of the 
Governance and the 20o1f9 t Ihnete Cgorarpteodra Rteep Goortv ehranvaen bceee ann cdo mNopmeninsaatteiodn w ith the suppoCrtG oNf& OSf ﬁCcoimnæm Viteterdei ,a wndh itchhe u Bseosa rGdo oldf  DStiraencdtaorrds,  coruerd its 
Material topics
Cogmainmeidtt teher oduegther tmhein deedv tehloep nmeewn tn aomf ae p Croogrpraomramtee  for biogass epnroiodru mctaionna gfoerm deonmt etsetaimc u wsaagse f oinc uKseendy ao.n further 
Governance, NominTahtei oGno ladn Sdt aSnudstaardin iasb siluitpyp orted by WWF aisn itte igsr athtien gm sousst traiginoarobuilsit y topics into the business 
(CGN&S) Committee. In pglaorbtiaclu clearrt, iiﬁtc daitsiocuns ssteasn dard for carbsotnr aotfefgseiets p orof joeucrt sG.roup. 
sustainability strategy and achievements which are 
INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
overseen by the Board of Directors.  Group Risk Management, Retail and Corporate 
Strategy Digitalization and innovation
Business lines both in Western Europe and Central & 
Value to customer
This decision responds to the need to raise the  Eastern Europe (CEE), Corporate & Investment Banking 
level of responsibility on the topic and make  (CIB), Investor Relations, Internal Communications, 
it more effective and integrated in the overall  Media Relations and of course Group Sustainability  LEAN AND SOLID BANK
corporate strategy. The Executive Management  and Foundation are all involved in the definition of a  Bank solidity
Risk 
Committee (EMC), chaired by the CEO, is the  coherent strategy to fight climate change and develop 
Lean and transparent organization
highest managerial committee appointed by the  appropriate indicators to be tracked over time under the 
Management
Board which comprises representatives from key  oversight of the CGN&S. 
PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
business functions and divisions. It ensures the 
effective steering, coordination and control of  The process is closely followed by the senior managers  Employees' development
Group business as well as the suCcocveesr safnudl  aInlitgrnodmuecntito n: UniCrreedspito Sn.spi.bAl.e for each function and involved in a series  Diversity and inclusion
of the parent company with the diffeSroerntet r pages: UniCredit So.fp m.Ae.etings to examine the current state of affairs, 
businesses and geographGiersa prehgica rddeivnegl osptrmaetengt iac nd compositsiotene: rM deerccisuiroinos G aPnd organise updates which are then 
ETHICS
topics including environmental issuesP crionnt:c eCrPnZi nSg.p .A. (Bergadmisoc)ussed in the EMC during the CEO Jour Fixe (the 
Fair business behavior
the Group.  April 2020 periodic update involving the CEO and his first line of 
Business ethics
reporting) and presented to the CGN&S for their review.
Metrics  The EMThCe t Ihneteregbrayt pedre Rseidpeosr to avnedr,  Saunpdp ilse mdireenctt hlya ve been made available at www.unicreditgroup.eu
responsible for climaantde  aclhsoa nagvea itlaobpliec sf.o1 r download by activatTinhge  CthGeN Q&RS  ciso adles ob ereloswpo.nsible for monitoring and  SYSTEMIC TRENDS
and Targets   overseeing progress of the goals and targets set  Cyber security
Climate-related issues are scheduled in the  according to the process above. 
Climate change
agenda of at least three meetings of the CGN&S 
Demograﬁc change
Committee every year. 
You may also request a copy from: UniCredit - Group Sustainability Piazza Gae Aulenti, 20154 Milan, Italy POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
e-mail: groupsustainability@unicredit.eu Positive impact on society
“
Sustainability is part of our Group’s DNA and a key component of our business model. UniCredit is committed 
to protecting our natural capital, including the environment. Every company has to do more than ‘business 
as usual’ - it is now the time to act and make a“n impact. Building a sustainable future is an important 
challenge for both people and businesses. These new measures are part of our wider sustainability strategy, 
to make sure that we always: Do the right thing!
Jean Pierre Mustier, UniCredit Group CEO
1. Refer to Governance Chapter for more information.
2019 Integrated Report
94 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 95