Our Strategy Our Strategy
→ Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) → Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
MATERIAL 
Strategy TOPICS
Last November 2019 UniCredit announced a  The road-testing of the PACTA methodology will  The Global Policy is applicable in all countries and  3.  General financing, advisory services, or other 
set of sustainability targets embedding several  start in the first quarter of 2020 to be completed  provides guidelines with reference to: forms of financial assistance for thermal coal 
commitments on climate change. by the first half of 2020.  •  financing of coal sector projects lending or other  mining companies:
forms of financial assistance with a disclosed    a.  criteria for onboarding new clients: the Group 
Climate change poses significant threats to the  The methodology allows banks to study the  use of proceeds in supporting projects related to  can engage with new clients only if their 
sustainability of our business. alignment of their portfolios with climate  Coal-Fired Power Plants (CFPPs) or thermal coal  revenues from thermal coal mining are lower 
benchmarks. The use of asset-level databases  mines, including coal trade finance transactions,  than 25 percent and in any case a critical 
Shifts in consumers’ preferences towards  allows the matching of economic assets with  also covering additional cross-sell that is  case by case assessment must be performed. 
climate-friendly products could affect our strategy  unlisted financial assets. This will enable  connected to coal trading, shipment and storage Financial support can be granted only if clients 
and imply financial stress for our customers, both  participating banks to overcome the data challenge  •  general financing, advisory services, or other  have a reasonable strategy to diversify their 
The emissions related to the printing and distribution of the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 
in terms of turnover and additional costs to align  for large lending portfolios associated with  forms of financial assistance (corporate loans)  profile
and the 2019 Integrated Report have been compensated with the support of Ofﬁcinæ Verdi, which uses Gold Standard credits 
their products with such shifts. Furthermore, our  non-listed counterparties and other counterparties  where the associated purpose is not directly    b.  as far as existing clients are concerned, the 
Material topics
gained through the development of a programme for biogas production for domestic usage in Kenya.
customers may be obliged to incur additional  for which climate-related data is not readily  linked to a coal-fired power plant/project or to a  business relationship can continue if their 
The Gold Standard is supported by WWF as it is the most rigorous 
expenses to implement new technologies  available in a homogenous and low-cost way.  thermal coal mine. revenues from thermal coal mining are lower 
global certiﬁcation standard for carbon offset projects.
compliant with arising regulations. For this reason  than 25 percent and they have in place a 
we are partnering with our customers in the shift  Any misalignments will be represented at  The Policy provides restrictive guidelines on: reasonable strategy to diversify their profile. 
INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
to a low-carbon, climate-resilient economy, in  sector, technologies and counterpart level and  1. Coal sector projects
Digitalization and innovation
particular through:  road-testing banks will be able to leverage the    a. no new projects will be financed 4.  Other companies involved in the coal sector will 
Value to customer
•  setting a more stringent framework for fossil fuel  methodology for reporting and steering potential    b.  projects already existing in our portfolio will  be also evaluated. If more than 30 percent of 
financing capital misallocation, in order to be aligned  not receive new financing or the provision of  the revenues of these companies (e.g. suppliers) 
•  increase of renewable energy sector exposure with the 2°C goal of the Paris Agreement. The  new financial services. are connected to coal-fired power generation/ LEAN AND SOLID BANK
•  increasing energy efficiency loans to customers. underlying matching software and calibration     All existing contractual commitments will be  thermal coal mines, the Group will verify that  Bank solidity
for matching instruments will be made publicly  honored until maturity, i.e. UniCredit Group will  the client has a reasonable strategy to diversify 
Lean and transparent organization
The strong commitment to partnering with clients  available at the end of the project. gradually let existing projects phase out on the  in place. 
is also demonstrated through the nomination of  basis of the existing contractual obligations.
PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
a new Sustainable Finance Advisory Team within  UniCredit has committed to fully exit thermal  If the above-mentioned criteria on existing 
our CIB division which combines sustainability  coal mining and cease support to coal-fired power  2.  General financing, advisory services, or other  clients are not met, UniCredit will gradually  Employees' development
expertise with capital markets execution to deepen  generation projects by 2023. forms of financial assistance Cfoorv eCro aanl-dF iIrnetdro duction: UniCrpehdaits eS .opu.At. of the relationship. Diversity and inclusion
client dialogue on ESG topics and facilitate their  Power Generation (CFPG) companiSeosr:ter pages: UniCredit S.p.A.
access to Europe’s green financing market. A new coal policy was approved and published    a.  criteria for onboardinGgr anpehwic c dlieevnetlso:p tmhee nGtr aonudp  compositIino no:r Mdeerr ctou rsiotr GenPgthen our approach on fossil fuels, 
ETHICS
in November 2019 which prohibits new projects  can engage with new clients onlyP irfi ntth: eCirP Z S.p.A. (Bergaamlsoo) a policy covering the Oil and Gas (O&G) sector 
Fair business behavior
UniCredit is working with all its team members and  in thermal coal mining and coal-fired power  current coal capacity is lower than 30 peArcperinl t2 020 has been approved and published in November 
Business ethics
the banking industry to make sure that banks always:  generation and imposes strict commitments in  and they have a clear strategy to reduce  2019. It identifies the Arctic and Non-Conventional 
Do the right thing, also for the environment. terms of reducing reliance on coal for corporate  reTlhiaen Icnet eognr aCtFePd GR etop olrets as ntdh aSnu p5p pleemrceenntt  hbayv e been madeO a&vGa i(lNabClOe Ga)t  iwndwuws.turnyi csreecdtiotgr raonudp .deuefines the rules 
customers.  2025 and also available for download by activatfionrg t thhee  rQeRp uctoadteio bneallo rwis.k assessment. SYSTEMIC TRENDS
As a first step towards performing a proper    b.  as far as existing clients are concerned:   Cyber security
scenario analysis, UniCredit is partnering with the  The Global Policy foresees specific criteria for      •  if their current installed coal power capacity  The Arctic Oil & Gas activities are defined as 
Climate change
global think tank 2° Investment Initiative (2°ii)  completing a reputational risk assessment,  is higher than 30 percent, the Group requires  the extraction of Oil and/or Gas performed in 
Demograﬁc change
in road-testing their Paris Agreement Capital  depending on the transaction characteristics  that clients clearly commit to reducing their  the region inside the Arctic Circle (66.5 degrees 
Transition Assessment (PACTA) methodology  (projects versus general financing, new projects  share of installed coal power capacity at  North of the Equator). The financing to extraction 
in a pool of 17 international banks. Originally  or clients versus projects or clients already in our  You malye aaslst oin r elqinuee swti ath c Nopayt ifornoamll:y U DneiCtreerdmiti n- eGdr oup Sustainabaiclittiyv iPtiiaezsz ian  Gthaee  AAurcletnict ir,e 2g0io1n5 4is M stilraonn,g Itlya llyimited;  POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
developed to assess the exposure of both equity  portfolio, coal-fired power plants versus thermal  Contributions (NDC) of thee-m coauiln: gtrryo uinp swuhstiachin ability@uinni cpraerdtiitc.euular, the Group considers on-shore and  Positive impact on society
and bond portfolios to transition technologies  coal mines) and based on required evaluations of  their operations are located off-shore extraction of oil and off-shore extraction 
across key sectors, a research programme to  specific environmental standards and thresholds      •  if their current installed coal power capacity  of gas as environmentally critical Arctic activities.
expand the model to the banks’ corporate lending  (e.g. compliance with environmental standards  is lower than 30 percent, the Group requires 
portfolios has been launched by 2°ii .  and objectives of the project, level of reliance on  an annual update on commitments to reduce 
coal-fired power generation and existence of plans  the clients’ share in future years.
to reduce such reliance, percentage of revenues 
coming from mining activity and existence of a 
strategy to reduce such percentage).
2019 Integrated Report
96 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 97