Our Strategy Our Strategy
→ Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) → Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Risk Management MATERIAL 
The following extraction activities are all part of  The new Global Policy also provides the following  TOPICS
the NCOG sector: restrictive guidelines:
• tar sands O&G  •  General financing, advisory services or other  With regard to climate change, both scientific The first activity put in place by the team focused 
•  ultra-deep water O&G (more than 1,500 metres  forms of financial assistance to companies  evidence and an increasing stakeholder awareness  on assessing the transition risk of listed companies 
or 5,000 feet) involved in the NCOG sub-sector: of climate issues make UniCredit’s action a priority.  in our CIB portfolio in order to effectively manage 
•  fracked/shale O&G   -  criteria for onboarding new clients: the  their environmental risk profile. Furthermore, a 
Group can engage with new clients only if  As a bank we are exposed both to physical and  relevant methodology will be deployed for other 
In addition, Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) is also  the above-mentioned forbidden activities  transition risks. These risks can take the form  corporate clusters.
considered a non-conventional treatment if derived  related to NCOG provide up to a maximum of  of significant credit, market, operational, and 
from the non-conventional extractions reported  25 percent of the total revenues recorded in  reputational risks. At present the potential impact  With reference to physical risk, a preliminary 
above, including “critical Arctic” activities. the year by the company, and that the above  on liquidity is not clearly understood. We are in  analysis estimating the most important impacts 
defined critical Arctic activities provide up to a  the initial phase of our process to develop and test  connected to climate change risk has been 
The Global Policy also imposes strict  maximum of 25 percent of total revenues quantitative models to correctly measure climate  initiated. In terms of risk assessment, it results 
commitments in order to discipline corporate    -  as far as existing clients are concerned,  risk aTnhde  ceomnissesiqounesn rtellya etemdb teod t hite  wpirtinhtinin ogu arn wd iddiesrt ribution of mthaei n2l0y1 i9n  Aimnnpuaairl mReepnot ritn a vnadl uAec coofu cnotlsl ateral located 
financing activities. the relationship can continue if the  and the 20f1i9n aInntceiaglr artisekd  aRsespeosrstm heanvet.  been compensated with the suppoirnt  ohfi gOhf ﬁccliimnæat Vee rridski,  zwohnicehs  aunseds  iGt ocoldu lSdt abned raerdla cteredd its 
Material topics
gained through the development of a programme for biogas production for domestic usage in Kenya.
above-mentioned forbidden activities related  to chronic risk (i.e. rise in sea level) or acute risk 
The Policy is applicable in all countries and  to NCOG provide up to a maximum of 25  Together, these moTdheel sG coaldll  Sftoarn tdhaer dd eisv esluopppmoretnedt  by WWF as(m ito irse t hfree qmuoesntt r aignodro suesv ere extreme events such as 
provides guidelines with reference to: percent of the total revenues recorded in  of a bank-wide climate rgislok bmala cneargtieﬁmcaetniot n standard for carbroinv eorf ffsloeto dpirnogje, cwtsil.dfire, storms). 
•  financing, lending or other forms of financial  the year by the company, and that the above  framework. As a bank we tend to align our 
INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
assistance to critical Arctic and NCOG projects  defined critical Arctic activities provide up to  strategic horizon with the tenure of our lending  The scope of the pilot study currently regards 
Digitalization and innovation
with a disclosed use of proceeds in supporting  a maximum of 25 percent of total revenues. If  activities.  the estimation of the potential impact of rise 
Value to customer
projects related to extraction, pipeline  the quota of revenues related to the forbidden  in sea level on the value of individual mortgage 
construction and infrastructure set-up in both  critical Arctic or NCOG activities is above  In this respect, short-term is the time horizon  collaterals located at Italian seacoast sites; once 
sectors the defined 25 percent threshold, the Group  considered for the repayment of a short-term loan  the methodology is consolidated, we will extend  LEAN AND SOLID BANK
•  general financing, advisory services, or other  requires a sound plan and an annual update in  (18 months), medium-term is considered, as is  the analysis to other chronic physical risks (river  Bank solidity
forms of financial assistance (corporate loans)  which clients commit to reducing their share to  usual in the treasury market, up to 5 years and  flooding, wildfire, drought), also monitoring 
Lean and transparent organization
to companies involved in the critical Arctic and  below 25 percent in future years. anything beyond is regarded as long-term. Based  extreme events (acute risks) over time and 
NCOG business. on this segmentation, climate-related risk can be  integrating new info into our lending processes.
PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
In addition to introducing the above-mentioned  regarded as medium to long-term risk. 
The Global Policy does not support: policies governing fossil fuel expansion, UniCredit  Moreover, during the year, thanks to the continuous  Employees' development
•  projects related to extraction of Oil & Gas in  has gone one step further by committing to  It is important to highlight that sCoomveer  qaunadn Itnittraotdivuec tion: UniCrceodoitp eSr.pa.tAio.n between the business functions  Diversity and inclusion
critical Arctic and NCOG sector increase its exposure to the renewable energy  indicators set as sustainability goals, Seomrtbeer dpdaegde s: UniCredit Sa.npd.A t.he risk and lending functions, the firm 
•  projects related to pipelines and other  sector by 25 percent by 2023 and to increase  in our new Team 23 strateGgrica pphlaicn d aenvde lopment and compositcioonm: mMietrmcuerniot  GtoP sustainability has also been 
ETHICS
infrastructures solely related to critical Arctic and  energy efficiency loans to customers.  comprehensive of climate risk monitorPinrign, th: aCvPeZ  S.p.A. (Bergaemnor)iched, supported by clear targets for 2023 to 
Fair business behavior
NCOG sector been integrated into the Risk Appetite FramewAoprkri l 2020 address climate change related risks including: 
Business ethics
•  projects related to production of Liquefied  (RAF) 2020 to monitor the achievement of the  •  assisting customers towards the transition to a 
Natural Gas when solely related to critical Arctic  declarTehde t aInrgteegtrsa.ted Report and Supplement have been made alovwai-lcaabrlbeo ant  ewmwisws.iuonni carnedd ictglirmouapte.e ruesilient economy
and NCOG sector. and also available for download by activat•i n img tphreo vQinRg c ooduer  pboelloicwie.s with regard to  SYSTEMIC TRENDS
A very first step towards the achievement of    climate-related sectors (i.e. Arctic and NCOG,  Cyber security
this important aspiration was the setting up  CFPG);
Climate change
of a dedicated team within our Group Risk  •  strengthening our commitment to not supporting 
Demograﬁc change
Management, responsible for the supervision  companies involved in the deforestation of 
and management of processes related to climate  rainforests.
Ycohua nmgaey  raislskos  raenqdu eUsnti Ca rceodpity’ sf raopmp:r UoanciChr etod ist e- nGsriotiuvpe  Sustainability Piazza Gae Aulenti, 20154 Milan, Italy POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
sectors.  e-mail: groupsustainability@unicredit.eu Positive impact on society
2019 Integrated Report
98 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 99