Our Strategy Our Strategy
→ Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) → Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
MATERIAL 
Risk assessment in this case is related to the  Our commitment to sustainability was presented  Commitments and targets on climate change TOPICS
transition of companies’ business models to  by the CEO in a press conference and in a call 
a low-carbon economy, the risk being a loss  dedicated to financial analysts and investors in the 
Commitment Targets 2023A
of financial assets on exposure to companies  month of November 2019.2
potentially subject to environmental regulations 
if they are unable to repay debt. This set of commitments and targets covering  COAL SECTOR POLICY
ESG topics is witnessing how sustainability is part 
No support for thermal coalB mining and coal fired power 
In terms of piloting, we are analysing CIB listed  of our Group’s DNA and is fully integrated in our  Existing thermal coalB mining 
plants (CFPP) projects. Already exited thermal coal  Phase out
and CFPP projects
companies sub-portfolio data (about 30 percent of  business strategies.  commodity trade finance (CTF) transactions
the total in terms of EAD of given portfolio) while for  Strict limitations on corporate financing of thermal coal  New clients New corporate clients only if thermal 
remaining companies we are applying proxies based  As such, it is recognised as a critical component of  mining clients coal revenues <25%
on sector and size of the company.  our bank’s success in the medium term. Strict limitations on corporate financing of coal fired  New clients New corporate clients only if installed 
power generation (CFPG) clients coal capacity ≤30% and ≤5% by 2025
The emissions related to the printing and distribution of the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 
Once the methodology is developed, our target is  The set of targets to which UniCredit is committed 
and the 2019 Integrated Report have been compensated with the support of Ofﬁcinæ Verdi, which uses Gold Standard credits 
to map the transition risk of our portfolio and the  also covers climate change issues, which is 
Material topics
gained through the development of a programme for biogas production for domestic usage in Kenya.
estimation of impact on credit indicators.  increasing also in terms of the materiality analysis 
ARCTIC AND NON CONVENTIONAL OIL AND GAS (NCOG)
The Gold Standard is supported by WWF as it is the most rigorous 
both from a stakeholder and internal approach 
The process will naturally be extended to the  point of view.  No support for Arctic Oil agnldo obfafls hcoerretCi ﬁAcrcattiico Gna sst parnodjeacrtds . for carbon offset proje• cOtisl .projects in the Arctic Circle
Corporate financing only if revenues from such activities  No exposure to
rest of the portfolios embedding the check of the  • Offshore gas projects in the Arctic Circle
are <25% INNOVATION FOR CUSTOMER
impact on earnings in the credit review. This shows how our CEO and senior management 
• Tar sands projects Digitalization and innovation
are pushing on the enhancement of our bank’s  Strong global limitations on non-conventional Oil & Gas  • Shale O&G and related fracking projects
(O&G) projects. Allow corporate financing only if revenues  No exposure to Value to customer
attitude to climate change.  • Ultra-deep waterD O&G projects
from such activities are <25%
• LNGE from non-conventional gasF projects
Metrics and Targets
While we are closely observing the development of  LEAN AND SOLID BANK
industry methodologies to define synthetic metrics  Bank solidity
As already mentioned, understanding transmission  to measure portfolio decarbonisation in alignment  DEFORESTATION OF RAINFOREST Lean and transparent organization
mechanisms of potential misalignment to  with the Paris Agreement goals, we have also set 
transition technology into financially measurable  specific targets which we will closely monitor  No support for clients involved in the  No exposure to Deforestation of rainforest
deforestation of rainforest PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT
risk is still underway.  over the years in accordance with the framework 
presented above.  Employees' development
Therefore it is premature to set proper targets  Cover and Introduction: UniCredit S.p.A. Diversity and inclusion
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
which could represent a safe haven portfolio  Sorter pages: UniCredit S.p.A.
composition.  Graphic development and composition: Mercurio GP
Energy efficiency loans to SMEs  34%  ETHICS
and to individuals in Western Europe Print: CPZ S.p.A. (Berga2m5o%) Increase of existing stock in Western Europe  Fair business behavior
However, as climate-related financial risk is a  April 2020
certainty, we have set some preliminary targets  Nanedw S oMriEgsin iant iCoEnE of energy efficiency loans to individuals  >6% Of CEE total loans originated Business ethics
based on our overall sustainability strategy. In future  IncreTahsee  sIunptepgorrta ftoerd r eRneepwoarbt lae nedn eSrugyp pselectmoreGn tto  have been made2 5av%ailable at Iwnwcrwea.usne ircerneedwitagbroleu epn.eeurgy sector EAD, 
TCFD disclosures we will track our progress in this  facilitate the transitaionnd t oa las olo wavear iclaarbbloen f eocro dnoowmnyload by activating the QR cotdoe m boerleo wth.an €9bn SYSTEMIC TRENDS
field in alignment with best practice development    Cyber security
and the industry standards as they materialise.
RANKING POSITION Climate change
Demograﬁc change
Be a strong partner for our customers in financing their Top 5 Position in EMEA combined Green 
environmentally sustainable projects Bonds & ESG-linked loansH
You may also request a copy from: UniCredit - Group Sustainability Piazza Gae Aulenti, 20154 Milan, Italy POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY
e-mail: groupsustainability@unicredit.eu Positive impact on society
A. Targets for 2023, unless stated otherwise.
B. Thermal coal is a grade of coal mainly used for power and heat generation, as opposed to metallurgical coal which is mainly used in steel production.
C. Offshore: above water. Onshore: on ground.
D. >1,500 meters below sea level.
E. Liquefied natural gas.
F. Offshore Arctic gas, shale gas and ultra-deep water gas.
G. P ortfolios considered “Renewable Energy”: biomass, hydro, photovoltaic, wind, combined heat and power, battery storage, energy from waste and other renewables as well 
as corporates predominantly operating renewable energy assets.
H. E SG Linked Loans = Green Loans, KPI-Linked loans, ESG-score Linked loans. Green Bonds = Green, Social and Sustainability bonds. Positioning to be assessed by looking at 
Loan Radar and Dealogic League Tables.
2. Refer to our website at https://www.unicreditgroup.eu.
2019 Integrated Report
100UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report101