How we achieve results in
UniCredit: Do the right thing!
UniCredit Leadership Team Meeting, Millennial Board presentation, Dec 2019
At UniCredit, our corporate culture is based on two core values: Ethics and Respect. Our commitment to 
always “Do the right thing!” is our guiding principle for interactions with all our stakeholders: investors, 
customers, colleagues and communities.  Environment
In the fourth quarter of 2019, we announced new ESG targets as part of our long-term commitment Every team member of UniCredit is committed to protect the environment: the entire UniCredit team 
to sustainability – part of our Group’s DNA and a key component of our business model. Building a was involved in “Climate day” on Friday September 20th, submitting more than 1,200 new ideas on 
sustainable future is an important challenge for both people and businesses. Every company has to do  what UniCredit can do concretely. All these suggestions will be implemented, under the leadership of 
more than ‘business as usual’ – it is time to act and make an impact. the Group “millennial board”, made of 10 millennial team members, who bring a tremendous energy 
and vision to our Group to “Do the right thing!”. We are committed to reducing our direct environmental 
impact by further cutting greenhouse gas emissions. By 2023 all electricity consumption in Western 
Europe will come from renewable energy sources, by when we will also remove all single-use plastic from 
“Do the right thing!” to generate sustainable results
all our headquarters. We are working to make an ever bigger difference through our indirect emissions, 
partnering with our customers in the shift to a low carbon economy. As already announced, we will fully 
exit thermal coal mining projects by 2023 and not ﬁ nance any new projects in thermal coal mining 
or coal ﬁ red power generation. We will increase our renewable energy sector exposure, granting more 
Investors
energy efﬁ ciency loans to our customers.
Social
We have committed € 1 billion to Social Impact Banking (SIB) initiatives throughout the Group between 
now and end 2023. This builds on our success in Italy, where we have already disbursed over 100 million 
euros. The programme is now being rolled out in 10 more markets. Art4Future is supporting SIB with the 
Communities Environment
sale of a limited number of expensive pieces to provide the capital to extend more social loans and buy 
Do
art pieces of young artists from our different countries. 
the right  In addition, we will continue to promote culture through important associations and our UniCredit 
thing! Foundation will carry on addressing important social needs, while supporting study and research.
Governance
Colleagues Customers
All companies looking to grow and thrive  must also focus on diversity and inclusion. Different perspectives 
help improve processes and behaviours, bringing more sustainable organisations. Creating a positive 
and inclusive workplace is key to innovation and growth. This is why UniCredit is working on different 
initiatives to ensure diversity and inclusion is at the forefront throughout the Group, to increase the active 
participation by women and minorities at all levels of the bank.
We  adhere  to  the  highest  standards  and  principles  with  external  monitoring  and  recognition.
This include the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures, Principles for Responsible Banking 
and OECD Business for Inclusive Growth Coalition. Our commitment to ESG places us in the 99th 
percentile of the FTSE Russell ESG ratings, a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series. Standard Ethics 
identiﬁ ed us as the only bank in Italy with an EE+ rating, strong compliance and the ability to manage 
key reputational risks. 
10 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UUnniiCCrreeddiitt  ••  22001199  IInntteeggrraatteedd  RReeppoorrtt 1111