Main partnerships  Supplement
→ Main partnerships and affiliations
and affiliations
Legal Entities Organisation Description Legal Entities Organisation Description
UniCredit SpA Assonime Assonime is an association of companies that studies issues related  UniCredit SpA London Benchmarking Group  LBG is the internationally recognised standard for measuring corporate 
to Italy’s economy and works to improve its industrial, commercial,  (LBG) community investment.
administrative, tax and currency legislation.
Nemetria Nemetria is a non-profit association, founded by companies, banks, 
CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure  CDP promotes understanding of the potential impacts of climate change  organisations and universities. The activity is expressed through 
Project) on shareholder value. seminars, workshops, conferences on the topics of economics, finance, 
ethics, corporate culture and culture in general.
CERT Finanziario Italiano  CERTFin is a public-private cooperative initiative to increase the capacity 
(CERTFin) of cyber-risk management in banking and financial services and the  Organisation for Economic  OECD promotes policies that will improve the economic and social 
resilience of the Italian financial system against cyber-attacks and  Cooperation and Development  wellbeing of people around the world.
security incidents. (OECD)
CSR Manager Network Italia CSR Manager Network is the Italian national association for corporate  Parks Liberi e Uguali Parks Liberi e Uguali is a non-profit organisation whose members are 
social responsibility professionals. exclusively employers. It was created to help partner companies to 
understand and attain maximum business opportunities deriving from 
EUROFI EUROFI is a non-profit organisation for exchanges between the financial 
the development of strategies and good practices that respect diversity.
services industry and the public authorities addressing issues related to 
the financial regulation and supervision and the economic and monetary  Social Impact Agenda per l‘Italia The mission of the Social Impact Agenda per l’Italia is to monitor and 
context impacting the EU financial sector. contribute to the implementation of the recommendations contained in 
the the report Inclusive Finance which includes the strengthening of the 
European Financial Marketing  EFMA is a non-for-profit association formed in 1971 by bankers and
ecosystem for social impact investments in Italy in favour of the growth 
Association (EFMA) insurers, specialised in retail financial marketing and distribution.
of social entrepreneurship.
European Financial Services  EFR brings together chairmen and CEOs of leading European banks and 
Society of Corporate Compliance  SCCE is a member-based association for compliance and ethics 
Round Table (EFR) insurance companies. The purpose of the EFR is to contribute to European 
and Ethics (SCCE) professionals worldwide and across all industries. The goal of SCCE is to 
public policy debates on issues relating to financial services and to the 
be the pre-eminent compliance and ethics association promoting lasting 
financial stability with the completion of the single market in financial 
success and integrity of organisations worldwide.
services. The EFR is also engaged in the lessons to be drawn from the 
financial crisis to render the financial system more resilient. Transparency International Italia Transparency International is the largest global organisation that deals 
with preventing and combating corruption. Its mission is to give voice 
European Microfinance Network  EMN is a member-based non-profit organisation based in Brussels which 
to the victims and witnesses of corruption and it collaborates with 
(EMN) promotes microfinance as a tool to combat social and financial exclusion 
governments, companies and citizens to put a stop to the scourge of 
in Europe through self-employment and the creation of microenterprises.
corruption.
European Venture Philanthropy  EVPA is a lively network of organisations sharing the same vision and 
UN Global Compact - Global  Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative, promoted by the United 
Association (EVPA) a common goal: creating positive societal impact through venture 
Compact Network Italy  Nations at national level via local networks, for businesses committed 
philanthropy. Its mission is to enable venture philanthropists and social 
Foundation to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted 
investors to maximise societal impact through increased resources, 
principles related to human rights, labour, anticorruption practices and 
collaboration and expertise.
the environment.
Executive Corporate Learning  ECLF is a community of senior executives from major global corporations. 
United Nations Environment  UNEP FI is an initiative promoted by the United Nations that addresses 
Forum (ECLF) The community has the strategic responsibility to foster large-scale 
Programme Finance Initiative  pressing, current issues in sustainable finance.
learning and transformation processes.
(UNEP FI)
FinTech Innovation - ABILab ABILab is dedicated to all main Italian and international fintech 
Utenti Pubblicità Associati (UPA) UPA is owned and operated by companies with a common interest in 
innovations.
resolving concerns related to advertising. UPA is aligned with the Istituto 
Global Credit Data (GCD) GCD is a not-for-profit initiative owned by more than 50 member banks  dell’Autodisciplina Pubblicitaria (IAP) in its efforts to defend and promote 
worldwide and helps banks measure their credit risk. responsible advertising as a vehicle for consumer information, market 
competition and social welfare.
Human Foundation Human Foundation is a foundation that promotes innovative solutions in 
response to emerging social needs. Valore D Valore D is an Italian association of more than 150 national and 
multinational companies. Its mission is to increase and support female 
International Integrated  IIRC is a global coalition of regulators, investors, companies, standard  representation in top positions in major Italian companies.
Reporting Council (IIRC) –  setters, non-governmental organisations and accounting professionals 
Business Network that works to establish integrated reporting and thinking in mainstream  Women in Finance Charter Women in Finance Charter is a commitment by HM Treasury and 
business practices. signatory firms to work together to build a more balanced and fair 
financial services industry. The Charter was introduced following the 
Istituto Affari Internazionali (IAI) IAI is an independent, private and non-profit think tank. It promotes  Empowering Productivity report into harnessing the talents of women in 
knowledge of international politics and contributes to the advancement  finance.
of European integration and multilateral cooperation.
Istituto per gli Studi di Politica  ISPI is the only Italian institute, one of the very few in Europe, to support 
Internazionale (ISPI) research activity with a significant commitment in training, conferences 
and analysis and orientation activities on risks and opportunities 
worldwide for companies and institutions.
Italian Association of Investor  AIR is a professional association of investor relations executives in Italy 
Relations (AIR) that promotes the professional stature of its members while spreading 
awareness of their role within a variety of financial institutions.
S. 4 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report S. 5