Supplement Supplement
→ Main partnerships and affiliations → Main partnerships and affiliations
Legal Entities Organisation Description Legal Entities Organisation Description
UniCredit Bank  Klimapakt Münchner Wirtschaft  Klimapakt Münchner Wirtschaft is part of the Integrated Climate  UniCredit Bank  Association of Business Service  ABSL is a leading organisation representing the business services sector 
AG Effective climate protection  Protection Action Programme in Munich in which large companies pledge  SA Leaders in Romania (ABSL) and gathers high-profile companies which conduct business in the 
needs pioneers to voluntarily reduce their CO2 emissions. area of Shared Services Center (SSC), Business Process Outsourcing 
(BPO), Information Technology Outsourcing (ITO) and Research and 
Verein für Umweltmanagement  VfU is an industry-specific body for environmental management in 
Development (R&D).
und Nachhaltigkeit in  financial institutions.
Finanzinstituten e.V. (VfU) Romanian Banking Institute (RBI) RBI’s primary objective is to improve the professional training and 
specialisation of staff from the financial/banking sector in line with the 
 UniCredit Bank  klimaaktiv pakt 2020 klimaaktiv develops and provides quality standards, the training and 
strategy determined by the National Bank of Romania and in cooperation 
Austria AG further education of professionals, with advice, information and a large 
with the Romanian Banking Association and with the programmes 
partner network, klimaaktiv supplements climate protection funding and 
approved by the Board of Directors.
regulations.
Romanian Banking Employers  CPBR promotes communication, cooperation and social dialogue with 
Austrian Society for Environment  ÖGUT is a non-profit organisation that works to stimulate discussion and 
Board (CPBR)  Romanian authorities. It contributes to the initiation, preparation and 
and Technology (ÖGUT) innovation on environmental issues through the involvement of NGOs, 
promotion of new laws or other legislative or regulatory initiatives.
businesses and the government.
AO UniCredit  Russian Union of Industrialists  RSPP is an independent non-governmental organisation that maintains 
UniCredit  Bulgarian Association for People  BAPM is a non-governmental organisation established to develop
Bank and Entrepreneurs (RSPP) regular contact with government authorities to keep them informed 
Bulbank AD Management (BAPM) best professional practices in the field of human capital management 
about the effectiveness of current laws and to protect the interests of 
and development; in doing so, it aims to increase added value for 
industry and entrepreneurship
organisations and contribute to the enrichment of people’s potential and 
professional performance. UniCredit Bank  Responsible Business Forum  RBF is Serbia’s first network of socially responsible companies. It inspires, 
Serbia Jsc (RBF) supports and encourages companies to continually improve their impact 
Zagrebačka  Croatia Green Building Council  GBC is a non-profit organisation and countrywide platform for the 
on society, carrying out a series of activities which aim to promote the 
Banka DD (GBC) promotion of sustainable construction practices.
concept of CSR in the business sector and the wider general public.
Croatian Business Council for  BCSD was founded in 1997 by leading Croatian businesses to promote 
Sustainable Development (BCSD) sustainable development in the private sector and represent business on 
the issue of sustainable development
UniCredit Bank  Bridge Bizniscool  Bridge Bizniscool is a joint project of Bridge Budapest and Logiscool, 
Hungary Zrt aimed at educating the entrepreneurial mindsets, introducing them to 
playful activities, and raising awareness of businesses and companies for 
children aged 9-14.
Joint Venture Association (JVSZ) JVSZ assimilates the views of its members and supports them in facing 
challenges related to business conduct and organisational decision-
making.
S. 6 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report S. 7