Governance Supplement
→ Governance
UniCredit’s culture permeates both its operations and the way business is conducted, ensuring proper addressing, 
coordination and control of Group activities and the management of related risks. This culture is grounded in a 
reliable system of values and rules, represented by:
•  Ethics and Respect, these values unite us and define our Group culture: how we make decisions and how we act 
Governance
on them. Together, they are an evolution of our Integrity Charter. Do the right thing! is the guiding principle which 
help us live these values3
UniCredit SpA is an Italian company with shares listed on the Milan, Frankfurt and Warsaw regulated markets  •  the Code of Conduct, which aims to promote a culture of Compliance by providing an outline of the Compliance 
adopting the traditional management and control system and, as a bank, parent company of the UniCredit banking  rules, the ethical professional standards and commitment to sustainability 
Group, it carries out, pursuant to the provisions of Section 61 of the Consolidated Banking Act, in addition to  •  the Code of Ethics, adopted pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 231/01 for the Holding Company, its foreign 
banking activities, governance and coordination ones, as well as control functions vis-à-vis the subsidiary banking,  branches and Italian subsidiaries. It contains the rules for all employees to ensure that conduct is always guided 
financial and instrumental companies within the banking Group itself. by criteria of fairness, collaboration, loyalty, transparency and mutual respect, as well as to avoid conduct that 
could constitute offences and crimes as defined in Italian Legislative Decree 231/01. The Code of Ethics is an 
The overall corporate governance framework of UniCredit1 has been defined according to current Italian and  integral part of the Organisation and Management Model adopted by UniCredit SpA
European provisions, as well as the recommendations of the Italian Corporate Governance Code for listed  •   the Global Rules are issued by UniCredit - consistent with the GMGR principles - to exercise its guidance, 
companies.2 coordination and control functions and to discipline activities deemed as significant in terms of compliance with 
the legal and regulatory provisions in force and/or in terms of risk management
UniCredit is also subject to the provisions contained in the Supervisory Regulations issued by the Bank of Italy  •  the Global Rules are classified into three different document types:
and, in detail, with regard to corporate governance issues, to relevant current Supervisory Regulations on banks    -  Global Policies (GP) which contain behavioural and methodological principles, guidelines and rules issued by the 
corporate governance. Holding Company, as well as the general framework of responsibilities between the Holding Company and the 
recipient Legal Entities
UniCredit, as issuer of shares also listed on the Frankfurt and Warsaw regulated markets, also fulfils the legal    -  Global Process Regulation (GPR) which describe the key elements for the discipline of processes classified by the 
and regulatory obligations related to listings on said markets as well as the provisions on corporate governance  parent company as Global due to relations among activities, responsibilities and supporting tools
contained in the Polish Corporate Governance Code issued by the Warsaw Stock Exchange.   -  Global Operational Regulation (GOR) which provide detailed technical, operational or methodological 
instructions issued by the parent company
•  service contracts between UniCredit and its related subsidiaries, which formally regulate the provision of 
intercompany services and ensure transparency regarding the services provided and the related compensation.
Governance framework
UniCredit encourages all its staff, external collaborators and commercial partners to follow the principles of 
Governance structures
transparency and sound management. This approach complies with current legislation and is in line with the 
fundamental principles governing the pursuit of the set objectives.
UniCredit has adopted the so-called traditional management and control system based on the existence of two 
UniCredit’s corporate governance adheres to current rules and regulations as well as to the recommendations laid  corporate bodies whose members are appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting: the Board of Directors, in charge of 
out in the Italian Corporate Governance Code for listed companies. The governance system is regularly verified and  the strategic supervision and the management of the company, and the Board of Statutory Auditors, responsible 
updated to ensure that UniCredit complies with evolving regulatory, environment, operating and market practices,  for supervising management. Legal accounting supervision is entrusted by the Shareholders’ Meeting to an external 
which are constantly monitored in order to verify their implementation. audit firm, upon proposal by the Board of Statutory Auditors, in compliance with relevant current laws.
UniCredit governance components include: This traditional management system, envisaging specific obligations for the Shareholders’ Meeting, allows for the 
•  the Articles of Association which set forth corporate governance provisions aimed at ensuring the proper  clear exchange of views between management and shareholders on fundamental elements of governance. These 
operation of corporate management elements include appointing and removing Directors, appointing members to the Board of Statutory Auditors, 
•  the Regulations for the Shareholders Meeting, governing the conduct of ordinary and extraordinary meetings granting a mandate for the external auditing to an audit firm, approving all connected fees. They also encompass: 
•  the Corporate Bodies and Committees Regulation, governing the function and competencies of the corporate  the approval of financial statements, the allocation of profits, the resolutions on remuneration and incentive 
bodies and Board Committees, in compliance with relevant legal and regulatory provisions, and the UniCredit  policies and practices, in accordance with current provisions, as well as the criteria to determine the compensation 
Articles of Association, also incorporating the principles and criteria set out in the Italian Corporate Governance  to be granted in the event of early termination of employment or early retirement from office.
Code for listed companies
•  the Group Compensation Policy, establishing an approach consistent with sustainable remuneration and its  The Board of Directors and Board of Statutory Auditors members are appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting on 
standardised implementation across UniCredit the basis of a proportional representation mechanism (voto di lista). This voting system features lists of competing 
•  the Group Managerial Golden Rules (GMGR) a set of guidelines defining managerial and governance rules at Group  candidates to ensure the election of minority shareholders representatives.
level in order to properly carry out its mission of defining a clear governance as well as managing and coordinating 
all Group Legal Entities. The structure of the above-mentioned corporate bodies guarantees they are gender-balanced in compliance with 
current regulations and provisions.
1. R efer to the annual Report on Corporate Governance and Ownership Structure and the Group Compensation Policy, available on the Governance section of the 
Company’s website (www.unicreditgroup.eu) for more information
2.  Since 2001, UniCredit has adopted the Italian Corporate Governance Code for listed companies, which based on the experience of major international markets, 
inter alia, identifies the corporate standards and best practices for Italian listed companies recommended by the Italian Corporate Governance Committee 
- which is inspired by transparency, accountability and a long-term perspective - to be applied according to the comply or explain principle that requires the 
explanation in the Report on corporate governance and ownership structure of the reasons of failure to comply with one or more recommendations contained 
in its principles or criteria. 3.  Refer to Ethics and Respect: Do the Right Thing! chapter for more information.
S. 10 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report S. 11