Supplement Supplement
→Governance →Governance
The UniCredit Board of Directors is composed of 14 members, including the Chairman and the Chief Executive  In detail, the Internal Controls & Risks Committee, the Corporate Governance, Nomination and Sustainability 
Officer.4  Committee and the Remuneration Committee have been set up in compliance with the provisions of the Bank 
of Italy Supervisory Regulations on banks’ corporate governance envisaging three specialist Committees – one 
In compliance with the current Italian and European provisions applicable on such topics, also concerning the time  on appointments, one on risks and one on remuneration. The Related-Parties Committee is established for 
commitment and the limits upon the maximum number of offices that Directors may hold, the Board of Directors  overseeing issues concerning transactions with related and associated parties, in compliance with the relevant 
establishes its qualitative-quantitative composition deemed to be optimal for the effective completion of the  Italian Companies and Exchange Commission (CONSOB) regulatory provisions and the Bank of Italy Supervisory 
duties and responsibilities entrusted to the body with strategic supervisory function by law, by the Supervisory  Regulations, carrying out the specific role attributed to independent Directors in the aforementioned provisions. 
Provisions and by the UniCredit Articles of Association. The Board also establishes the requirements that the 
UniCredit Directors shall meet, in addition to possessing those envisaged by current provisions. The Committees’ duties are undertaken based on terms of reference and procedures set forth by the Board.
Before appointing the body with strategic supervisory function, the Board informs the shareholders about its 
composition deemed to be optimal in order that the expertise required may be taken into consideration in the  Board self-evaluation
choice of candidates. However, shareholders may carry out their own assessment on the best composition of 
the supervisory body and file their own candidacies consistent with the same, explaining their different proposal  In compliance with the provisions of the Bank of Italy Supervisory Regulations on banks’ corporate governance, 
vis-à-vis the analyses carried out by the Board. and also pursuant to the provisions of the Italian Corporate Governance Code for listed companies, the Board 
of Directors undertakes a regular self-evaluation process at least once a year. It is focused on the adequacy of 
With regard to the following: the Board itself and Board Committees in terms of composition and functioning, tangibly measured in specific 
• the qualitative and quantitative composition of the Board of Directors and the profile of candidates to the position theme-based areas, with special reference to those relevant to sound and prudent management.
of Director
• the time commitment recommended for an effective attendance at the Board and Committees meetings In particular, it is focused on:
• the limits upon the maximum number of offices established by the provisions of the Capital Requirements •q ualitative and quantitative composition, size, degree of diversity, educational background, experience (including
Directive IV (Directive 2013/36/EU dated 26 June 2013, CRD IV), amended by the Directive 2019/878/EU dated 20 managerial), seniority in the current position, a guaranteed balance of non-executive and independent members,
May 20 2019 adequacy of the appointment processes and selection criteria, and ongoing professional development
• the gender composition criteria for the body with strategic supervisory function •m  eetings, frequency, duration, attendance levels and form of participation, sufficient time available to dedicate
reference can be found in the document Qualitative and Quantitative Composition of the Board of Directors of to the assignment, degree of trust, collaboration and interaction among members, awareness of the role of Board
UniCredit, published on the Company’s website, Governance section. member, and the quality of debate at Board meetings.
The composition of the Board qualitatively and quantitatively corresponds to the theoretical profile. In detail, also  The self-assessment process is undertaken with the assistance of an external consultant chosen taking into 
in light of the information given by the persons concerned, the requirements concerning, inter alia, experience,  account skills, expertise in the field of corporate governance, and the need for neutral, objective and independent 
integrity and independence,5 as well as the time commitment recommended for an effective attendance at the  judgment, which are the hallmarks of the self-assessment process.
Board and Committees meetings and the limits upon the maximum number of offices that Directors may hold 
established by the provisions of the CRD IV Directive, were accounted for. 
Induction initiatives and recurring training
The Director’s personal qualities, as well as age and gender diversity (the female component is above the 
applicable requirements) fully comply with the indications in the theoretical profile. Furthermore, with reference  In UniCredit a permanent induction programme is active for the Board members, also for the benefit of the Board of 
to professional expertise gained in the areas of competence envisaged by the profile, all areas of competence were  Statutory Auditors members, based on three-year cycles connected to the Board mandate, with the aim of ensuring 
represented in the Board and the experience possessed by all the Directors is in line with the requirements of the  ad hoc training on a continuous basis that takes into account both their individual and collective needs.
profile, given the good understanding and experience in more than two of the required areas of competence.
The induction programme, which is put in place with the support of an external consultant, includes both sessions 
The positions held by the Board Members in other companies listed on regulated markets (both in Italy and abroad)  aimed at fostering the integration of new Directors and recurring trainings to preserve over time the expertise 
as well as in financial services companies, banks, insurance companies or other large companies, are referred to in  needed for the proper fulfilment of their duties.
the Report on Corporate Governance and Ownership Structure.
In addition, individual training plans will be activated, should they be deemed necessary, to strengthen specific technical 
In order to support the Board of Directors, also pursuant to the provisions of the Italian Corporate Governance  knowledge and expertise and to increase the level of diversity and the collective experience of the Board of Directors.
Code for listed companies, four Committees6 are established, vested with research, advisory and proposal-making 
powers diversified by sector of competence: Training sessions and in-depth study initiatives in 2019 focused on topics of strategic relevance, business and relevant 
•t he Internal Controls & Risks Committee organisational structures, knowledge of macroeconomic scenarios, development of markets as well as legal and 
•t he Corporate Governance, Nomination and Sustainability Committee regulatory topics, with the aim of assuring awareness and knowledge of the risk profile adopted by the Group.
•t he Remuneration Committee
•t he Related-Parties Committee. More specifically, inclusion programmes for newly appointed members of the corporate bodies were provided. Training 
schemes focused on the in-depth examination of the above-mentioned topics and specific meetings focused on the 
perspectives and key elements for both Group and the entire European banking sector strategies were also prepared 
4.  Refer to the annual Report on Corporate Governance and Ownership Structure, available on the Governance section of the Company’s website  and implemented (open to the members of the Board of Directors and the Board of Statutory Auditors). 
(www.unicreditgroup.eu), for more information.
5.  The number of independent Directors in office is above the minimum required by current regulatory and statutory provisions (11 out of 14 under UniCredit’s 
Articles of Association and the Italian Corporate Governance Code, 13 out of 14 under Legislative Decree No. 58/1998, 13 of whom are non-executives). Furthermore, specific initiatives for the in-depth examination of topics falling within the competencies of the Board 
6.  Refer to the annual Report on Corporate Governance and Ownership Structure and the Group Compensation Policy, available on the Governance section of the 
Company’s website (www.unicreditgroup.eu), for more information. Committees have been devoted to members of each Committee.
S.12 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report S.13