Supplement Supplement
→Governance →Governance
Organisational and governance structures Board and senior management compensation7
(as at 31/12/2019)
The CEO is the only executive director who sits on the Board of Directors, and part of his remuneration is linked 
The UniCredit Group organisation reflects a model in line with our vision of commercial banking which ensures  to the sustainability of UniCredit financial results. All other Board Members are non-executive Directors, and 
autonomy to our banks across Europe and in turn guarantees increased proximity to the client and faster decision- are not beneficiaries of incentive plans utilising stock options or, more generally, of any plan that makes use 
making processes. At the same time the model maintains a divisional structure for the governance of the Corporate  of financial instruments. Remuneration for members of the administrative and auditing bodies of UniCredit is 
& Investment Banking (CIB) business/products and the business in Western Europe (WE) and Central Eastern Europe  represented only by a fixed component, determined on the basis of the importance of the position and the time 
(CEE) countries, as well as overall control over the COO and Finance and Controls functions.  required for the performance of assigned tasks. This policy applies to non-executive Directors as well as statutory 
auditors. The approach to compensation for UniCredit’s top managers, as detailed in the Group Compensation 
UniCredit’s organizational model is composed as follows: Policy, is performance-based, market-aware and aligned with our business strategy and shareholders’ interests. 
•  the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) maintains the direct supervision of Risk Management, Compliance, Human  As set out in the Transform 2019 strategic plan, the variable remuneration for the CEO is entirely based on the 
Capital and Legal, as well as of the optimisation of costs management and of the main operating activities 2017-2019 Long Term Incentive Plan, tied to the strategic plan’s targets. More details on the compensation for 
•  Commercial Banking WE and Commercial Banking CEE - both positions are covered by two appointed Co-Heads  management leaders and for the members of the administrative and auditing bodies of the Group are reported 
(Co-CEOs) who are responsible for all business activities, focusing on the ongoing development of client services  in the Group Compensation Policy. To ensure competitiveness and effectiveness of remuneration, as well as 
and maximising cross-selling, for the respective perimeter of competence transparency and internal equity, the principles of sustainable conduct and performance define the key pillars of 
•  Head of Finance and Controls is in charge of coordinating the comprehensive process of planning, finance and  the Group Compensation Policy. The Compensation Policy framework is designed to assure the consistency of the 
administration, managing identity and communication activities, developing relationships with institutional  remuneration elements and systems, while also conforming to our Group’s long-term strategies and principles 
counterparties, managing the relationships with the European Banking Supervisory Authorities (e.g. EBA, ECB) and  of sound risk management. The Group Compensation Policy, as proposed by the Remuneration Committee, is 
Bank of Italy, as well as credit granting activities submitted for approval to the Board of Directors and, subsequently, to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
•  the Chief Operating Office (COO), a position covered by two Co-Heads (Co-COOs), is responsible for the oversight 
of the operating machine with a specific focus on costs and on IT & Operations development, for changes in the 
Group operating model, for cost reduction, for digital processes and procedures transformation in accordance 
with the Group strategies outlined. At the same time it is required to ensure synergies, savings and operational 
excellence, and to supervise the strategic planning and rationalisation of the IT developing programme.
•  the CIB Division, a position covered by CEO CIB, focuses on multinational clients (Multinational), on selected large 
corporate clients with a strong potential demand for investment banking products, on Financial Institutions (FIG) 
and on global product lines Global Transaction Banking (GTB), Financing & Advisory (F&A), Markets, and on the 
international network
• a s far as the Italian perimeter is concerned, the Co-CEOs Italy, directly reporting to the Co-CEOs Commercial Banking 
WE, are responsible for outlining the business strategies of commercial banking and for the assignment of such 
strategies to the territories and to the client segments (Family First, Business First, Corporate, Private Banking)
•  the functions named Competence Lines (Planning, Finance & Administration, Risk Management, Legal, 
Compliance, Internal Audit, Human Capital, Lending, Identity & Communication) oversee the guidance, 
coordination and control of UniCredit’s activities and manage the related risks.
Internal Control System
An effective Internal Control System is a prerequisite for the creation of value in the medium-long term, for 
safeguarding the quality of activities, for the correct perception of risk and for an appropriate allocation of capital.
It establishes the rules, procedures and organisational structures, as well as the information flows, that ensure an 
effective management of risks and align UniCredit’s activities with its corporate strategies and policies founded on 
sound and prudent management principles.
UniCredit’s Internal Control System relies on control bodies and functions which involve, each within its respective 
competence, the Board of Directors, the Internal Control & Risks Committee, the CEO as officer in charge of the 
internal controls and risks management system, the Board of Statutory Auditors and the corporate functions, each 
with specific associated tasks.
7.  The information relates to the 2019 Group Compensation Policy; refer to the Company’s website (www.unicreditgroup.eu) for more details.
S. 14 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report S. 15