Risk Management  Supplement
→ Risk Management and Compliance
and Compliance
Implementation of our environmental, social 
and operational and reputational risk sector policies
Managing environmental and social risks
Certain sectors and activities require a specialised approach to ensure that transactional and related risks are properly 
addressed. We have developed detailed guidance policies for sectors relevant to UniCredit that are susceptible to 
Sound risk management requires a deep understanding of many types of risk, including environmental and social  special environmental and social risks.
risks and their subsequent impacts on financial results and the balance sheet.
These policies are inspired by agreements, guidelines and standards (including the International Finance Corporation 
Through its Global Policy - Group Credit Operations (chapters on Project Finance and Structured Trade and Export  Performance Standards, the World Bank Group Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines and the principles of 
Finance) and other special policies and practices, UniCredit assesses and manages both traditional economic  the UN Global Compact), as well as other practices widely employed by specific industries. Indeed, we consider these 
and financial and non-financial impacts. These include environmental, social and other reputational risk impacts  documents to be representative of best practices for assessing and avoiding potential environmental and social 
associated with performance of its customers in these areas. impacts. Through the implementation of appropriate management and mitigation measures on behalf of our clients 
and counterparts, UniCredit aims to avoid or limit the risks associated with transactions and projects in these sectors.
With this in mind, UniCredit implements and integrates the Equator Principles (EP), whenever applicable, into its 
project financing transactions. Furthermore UniCredit has adopted detailed special policies regarding sectors that  The sectors affected by the above mentioned policies include: water infrastructure (dams, in particular), nuclear 
present significant environmental and social risks. As a consequence, our Group monitors portfolio exposures to the  energy and the coal sector. In 2019 we updated the Defence/Armaments and the coal sector policies. At the same 
above mentioned sectors. In keeping with our commitments, we work to disseminate a strong inner culture of risk  time we developed a new policy regarding the Arctic and Non-Conventional Oil & Gas Industry. 
management that prioritises environmental and social issues.
To support the spreading of these policies specific workshops and training sessions have already been planned for 
How we mitigate environmental, social and reputational risks 2020 for colleagues (relationship managers, risk managers, members of other functions involved in due diligence 
processes) to correctly assess all risks related to clients involved in these sectors.
POLICIES SCOPE & OBJECTIVES 2019 HIGHLIGHTS
The criteria for these policies are regularly reviewed so that all emerging environmental and social standards and any 
additional relevant impacts are taken into account in financial decision-making processes. When necessary, external 
EQUATOR • Framework of standards for determining,  • 98 project transactions evaluated  experts are involved in these processes. 
PRINCIPLES assessing and managing environmental  • 14 projects ﬁnanced 
and social risk for large projects • roughly 70 colleagues received  Environmental, social and reputational risk policies
training on EP
Policy Latest version Objective
SECTOR POLICIES • Framework of sector-speciﬁc  • >900 transactions were screened for 
Defence/Armaments, Water standards/guidelines to identify, assess  environmental, social and reputational  Defence/Armaments Oct 2019 To regulate financial involvement with companies from the defence/armaments 
Infrastructure (Dams), Nuclear and mitigate environmental, social and  risk issues (vs. >700 in 2018)  industry 
energy, Coal Sector, Mining Sector, reputational risks/impacts on an  • ~1,300 collegues in Italy were trained  Arctic and  Nov 2019 To establish standards and guidelines that address the risks associated with 
Arctic and Non Conventional Oil ongoing basis with our clients on UniCredit sector policies in the last  Non-Conventional Oil  financing the Arctic and Non-Conventional Oil & Gas Industry
& Gas Industry sector  & Gas Industry
two years
Coal sector  Dec 2019 To establish standards and guidelines that address the risks associated with 
financing the coal sector
• Speciﬁc high risk cases/transactions 
OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL analysis not covered under the deﬁned  • >200 transactions were screened for  Mining July 2014 To establish standards and guidelines that address the risks associated with 
AND SOCIAL IMPACTS  policies  environmental, social/human rights  financing mining operations
(AD HOC ASSESSMENT) • Ad hoc analysis leveraging the data  and reputational risk issues Nuclear Energy June 2013 To regulate financial involvement with and address the challenges posed by the 
analytics and key internal functions of  (vs. ~300 in 2018)  nuclear energy sector 
external Environmental, Social and  Water Infrastructure Feb 2012 To establish standards and guidelines that address the risks associated with 
Governance (ESG) providers financing large water infrastructure projects such as dams
ENVIRONMENTAL, • Dedicated Committee (Group  • 44 transactions analysed by the GRRC
These policies apply directly to UniCredit SpA and are addressed to all Group legal entities that engage – whether 
SOCIAL AND Reputational Risk Committee - GRRC) to  • Quarterly analysis presented/discussed 
through lending or other forms of financial assistance with the above-listed sectors. Their adoption is subject to 
REPUTATIONAL RISK - assess business initiatives, transaction  in Group Operational Reputational and 
PREVENTION PROCESS banking, projects, customers, etc. Risk Committee (GORRIC)  monitoring by the parent company’s Group Risk Management functions.
Furthermore, UniCredit’s policies define specific internal processes to consistently identify, assess and monitor potential 
environmental and social risks. Screening records and tools are implemented in our standard risk and compliance check 
to support the performance of comprehensive due diligence. These utilise information derived from business intelligence 
providers on environmental, social and governance risks inherent to the most sensitive and other relevant sectors.
Transactions are generally screened by the legal entity responsible at both the transactional and the client level. A 
record of the screening process is integral to the compliance assessment and must be completed before approval 
is granted. In 2019 1,114 transactions were assessed for potential environmental, social, and other reputational 
issues. More than 900 of these transactions were related to our sector policies.
S. 16 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report S. 17