Supplement Supplement
→ Risk Management and Compliance → Risk Management and Compliance
Topic Global Policy Definition Topic Global Policy Definition
Client Interest  Provision of investment  This Rule provides UniCredit SpA and Group Companies with  Market Transparency Personal Account Dealing This Rule provides Group Companies with common standards to 
Protection services and activities under  common standards and minimum requirements when providing  define internal procedures aimed at preventing and mitigating 
MIFID II investment services and activities falling within the scope of  compliance risks related to personal transactions on Financial 
MIFID II, with the exclusion of ancillary services. Instruments of individuals in scope of this Rule.
Conflicts of interest This Policy sets out rules and standards to be implemented  Market Abuse This Policy defines the principles, rules and standards to ensure 
by the UniCredit Group for properly detecting, managing and  that the Group complies with the provisions set forth by the 
recording Conflicts of interest, with particular regard to: Market Abuse Regulation.
•  conflicts in the provision of investment services and activities Single Antitrust Rulebook  This Rule defines, in one Single Antitrust Rulebook, all the Group 
•  conflicts in the provision of insurance products distribution  Antitrust and Unfair  principles, rules and standards concerning Antitrust and Unfair 
services Commercial Practices Commercial Practices.
•  conflicts related to the issuance of financial instruments
Financial Benchmarks This Rule sets forth Group internal principles and rules to regulate 
•  conflicts arising from the administration and/or contribution to 
the contribution to, the provision of and the use of financial 
financial benchmarks
benchmarks according to Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 on indices 
•  conflicts arising from the provision of investment 
used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial 
recommendations
contracts or to measure the performance of investment funds.
•  conflicts in the provision of banking services and activities
Leakage Management This Rule aims at governing the phenomenon of so-called Information 
•  conflicts arising from employee’s personal interests
Leakages, due to the damage these may cause to the legitimate 
•  organisational conflicts
interests of the Group itself and its clients and to market integrity.
•  conflicts arising from assignment of services and/or activities 
to external providers. Insurance Distribution  The Rule aims at setting Group standards on the distribution of 
Directive insurance and/or reinsurance products and provides UniCredit 
Anti-bribery &  Anti-Bribery and  This Policy aims to:
SpA and Legal Entities with common standards and minimum 
Anti-corruption Anti-Corruption •  clearly articulate UniCredit’s commitment to prohibiting bribery 
requirements to provide insurance and/or reinsurance distribution.
and corruption;
•  define principles for identifying and preventing potential 
bribery and corruption;
•  clearly communicate anti-bribery and anti-corruption principles 
both to internal and external stakeholders;
•  provide a framework for a Group-wide Anti-Corruption  Policies
Programme.
Whistleblowing The purpose of this Rule is to foster a corporate environment 
where Employees and Third Parties may feel free to make  Anti-Money Laundering
Reports on Unacceptable Conduct within the Group since they 
are considered as significantly contributing to self-correction and 
excellence. Regulators are very focused on the level of compliance with Anti-Money Laundering (AML) requirements by banks.
This Rule defines:
The Global Policy on AML and Countering of Terrorist Financing builds on the Group Compliance Framework Global Policy 
•  unacceptable conducts subject to reports from employees
•  the process for the management of reports by identifying the  and sets out more detailed policy statements on issues such as risk assessment, customer classification and the minimum 
persons in charge of the relevant receipt and analysis due diligence standards for the Know Your Customer process while also taking into account the EU AML Directives.
•  the measures provided by the Group for the protection of 
The AML Policy sets out the framework the Group uses to manage its money laundering and terrorist financing risk 
whistleblowers and their identity as well as measures related 
to the filing of the documentation connected to reports. and establishes minimum standards for the Group Entities AML programmes. The operational guidelines for the 
Data Protection Privacy This Policy implements the provisions introduced by the EU  implementation of the AML Policy are set in Group Operational Regulation on risk assessment and second level 
General Data Protection Regulation n. 2016/679 (GDPR), in order 
controls, due diligence requirements, monitoring of customers’ transactions, as well as specific rules applicable to 
to define minimum requirements on data protection-related 
topics. This Rule is aimed at uniform enforcement of the GDPR  certain products. 
requirements and principles at Group Level. 
Data Breach detection,  This Rule aims to define the principles and minimum rules  Key achievements 2019 Priorities 2020
management and  for the implementation, management, development and  1. I mplementation of second Level Controls (2LC) Catalogue 1. C ontinuing roll out of negative news screening 
notification process maintenance of a coordinated process that allows the correct  2. T esting of transaction monitoring tools 2. G roup testing on Politically Exposed Person (PEP) 
detection and management of security incidents related to GDPR  3. I mplementation of regulatory projects 3. C ontinuing investigations on specific money laundering 
issues. 4. E xecution of AML Risk Assessment typologies 
Anti-Money  Anti-Money Laundering  This Rule provides a high-level framework for Employees to  5. I mplementation of Gianos 4D according to Proof of Concept  4. C ontinuing red flags implementation in transaction monitoring 
Laundering (AML),  and Countering of Terrorist  identify potential money laundering and terrorist financing risks  results and customization tool and fine-tuning
Counter-Terrorist  Financing and to assist them in determining how to manage those risks.  6. I mplementation of scenarios in Siron across CEE countries and  5. T esting Customer Due Diligence (CDD) tools in group entities
Financing and  It also provides general information on the measures taken  Bank Austria 
Financial Sanctions by Group Companies to identify, mitigate and manage money 
laundering and terrorist financing risk.
Financial Sanctions This Policy defines the principles and rules for setting out the 
Anti-corruption
framework by which the Group manages its risks in respect of 
Financial Sanctions. It also establishes minimum standards for 
the controls to be implemented throughout the Group.
The Group has zero tolerance towards acts of corruption, prohibits facilitation payments and does not permit any 
transfer of value to public officials without approval.
The Group’s approach to anti-corruption and anti-bribery is set out in the Global Compliance Policy on 
Anti-Corruption and associated Group Operational Rule.
The GLobal Policy sets minimum standards of anti-corruption compliance throughout the UniCredit Group and is 
published on the Group website. Whenever local rules in a country of operation are stricter than Global Policy, the 
stricter local rules apply. Each local entity is responsible for the development and implementation of an effective 
local Anti-Corruption Programme.
S. 22 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report S. 23