Supplement Supplement
→ Risk Management and Compliance → Risk Management and Compliance
Global Policy and Group Operational Regulation are reviewed periodically. Moreover, Italian Group Legal Entities  In drawing up the Model, the Bank took explicit account of the Italian Banking Association (ABI) Guidelines.
have also implemented the Organisational and Management Model pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 231/01  The Model of UniCredit SpA was updated in July 2019. In particular, the General Section and the Decision Protocols 
(Administrative liability of Legal entities, companies and associations). This Model establishes specific Protocols  has been updated as following: 
preceding bribery and corruption issues. •  General Section: (i) chapter 1 Scope and purpose of the organisation and management model, has been 
reviewed; (ii) chapter 3 Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001 risks prevention measures, has been revised for 
For the purposes of the Policy, an act of corruption is defined as the giving, offering, promising, receiving, accepting,  making it adherent to the Corporate Governance of the Group; (iii) chapter 4 Supervisory Body, the structure and 
demanding or soliciting directly or indirectly of monetary or non-monetary, tangible or intangible benefits in order  composition of the Supervisory Body pursuant to Italian LD 231/2001, has been reviewed following the attribution 
to obtain or retain an undue advantage in the course of business activities, irrespective of: of the functions of the Supervisory Body to the Board of Statutory Auditors; (iv) chapter 5 The disciplinary system, 
•  whether the recipient of the act of corruption is a domestic or a foreign individual, a public official or a private  the sanctioning process has been reviewed; (v) chapter 6 Information and staff training, has been reviewed
individual •  Special Section (the Decision Protocols): (i) the references of Supervisory Body have been updated in all Decision 
•  where the act is committed Protocols; (ii) other main changes in some Decision Protocols: following organisational changes in the Bank, 
• w  hether the result of such act entails an actual undue advantage or the improper performance of a function or activity. update of the internal regulations and periodical information flows.
All employees are responsible for complying with the Global Policy and Group Operational Regulation, any 
corresponding local internal rules and procedures and all applicable anti-corruption laws in the performance of  Antitrust
their duties.
All employees shall report to the Local Anti-Corruption Officer or the Local Head of Compliance any instances of  UniCredit has always been highly committed to compliance with Antitrust rules.
actual or attempted acts of bribery and corruption they become aware of, whether the act of bribery and corruption  Following the Antitrust policies pursued and enacted in the past, in 2016 UniCredit deployed the Compliance-
is offered, given or received. Antitrust Programme at Group level (hereinafter CAP) aimed at:
•  increasing the governance of Antitrust matters at both company and Group level
Any report must be made according to the established internal process but in any case, in the first instance to  •  strengthening compliance culture and enhancing the Group’s reputation on the markets
the Local Anti-Corruption Officer and, where actual or suspected money laundering is involved, also to the local  •  more effectively managing the risk of both Antitrust breaches and penalties.
AML Officer. Failure to make such a report may give rise to individual criminal liability on the part of the relevant 
employee in certain jurisdictions, as well as exposing the Group to potential legal or regulatory action. Potential  In 2016 the CAP was deployed in UniCredit SpA and the main banks of the Group operating in the European 
acts of bribery and corruption may be reported also under the Global Policy on Whistleblowing. Union and since then has been shaped and calibrated on the basis of each bank’s specific features, business type 
The following mechanisms have been put in place to monitor the effectiveness of the Group’s approach to  and size as well as target markets. The CAP is subject to monitoring and periodic review to ensure its continued 
preventing corruption and bribery: escalation procedures employed for significant and strategic issues; quarterly  effectiveness.
report to the management of second level controls; compliance risk assessments performed for each regulatory  Following the success of this initiative, in 2017 the CAP was extended to the main Group Companies (not limited to Group 
area in all legal entities within the Compliance function’s jurisdiction; internal audit reviews. The last two  banks) as well as to the foreign branches of UniCredit SpA and UniCredit Bank AG also beyond the European Union.
mechanisms result in risk mitigation actions that must be completed on time to ensure the management of 
identified risks. During 2018 CAP was further extended to some indirectly controlled companies in Romania as well as to the Abu 
Dhabi branch of UniCredit SpA and additional classroom “tailor-made” training on Antitrust matters was delivered 
Key achievements 2019 Priorities 2020
to the Milan branch of UniCredit Bank AG.
1. I ssuing of the Anti-Corruption Group Operational Regulation  1. I mplementation of the Group Operational Regulation– roll out in 
2. R oll out of the updated Group Control Catalogue for Anti- all the Group Legal Entities
Corruption and Whistleblowing 2. E xecution of the updated ABC Group Control Catalogue In 2019 the CAP was refreshed and updated in 15 banks and was performed through:
3. C lassroom workshops and communication campaigns on  3. D edicated training (workshop/classroom) on ABC topics for  •  a dedicated mapping of any sensitive company Functions (i.e. those exposed to potential Antitrust risks, including 
whistleblowing specific target of employees
but not limited to Business ones)
4. T raining on new ABC course to all Group employees
•  targeted interviews of key people of the impacted Functions so as to identify specific Antitrust risks
•  dedicated assessment of the Antitrust risks and subsequent roll-out of internal processes and controls (where 
Organisational and management model pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001 needed)
•  tailor-made trainings, assigned to selected employees within the Functions affected by Antitrust risks. 
UniCredit SpA has adopted an organisational and management model (hereinafter the Model, composed of two 
Sections: General and Special) pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 231/01 (administrative liability of legal  In 2019 dedicated sessions on Antitrust were held at the EMC of UniCredit SpA and main committees of the Group banks. 
entities, companies and associations). The Model is integrated within the rules, procedures and control systems 
already in place and applied in UniCredit SpA. The bank’s organisational framework consists of the set of rules,  Key achievements 2019 Priorità 2020
structures and procedures that ensure the proper functioning of the Model; it is a structured, comprehensive  1. R efreshing and updating of Compliance Antitrust Program in  1. E xtension of Compliance Antitrust Program in 2020 to selected 
15 main banks of the Group Group Companies, according to new compliance oversight 
system with the aim of guaranteeing the prevention of unlawful conduct, including those provided for by the 
methodology
specific legislation on the administrative liability of entities. In particular, the Bank has identified the following 
supports to plan and implement the business decisions and carry out the relevant checks: the rules of Corporate 
Governance; the Internal Controls System; the system of authorities and delegation; the Code of Conduct. 
In addition, with specific reference to the risks deriving from Legislative Decree (LD) 231/2001, the Bank has 
formalised the Special Section, that is, specific Decision Protocols that describe the at-risk activities, in relation to 
which the relevant offences may be committed and the principles of conduct and control rules aimed at preventing 
the offences. UniCredit SpA established additional rules of conduct in the Code of Ethics pursuant to Italian LD 
231/2001, as an integrated part of The Model.
S. 24 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report S. 25