Supplement Supplement
→ Risk Management and Compliance → Risk Management and Compliance
Main legal actions regarding anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust and monopoly practicesA
Conflicts of interest
Country Description of main legal actions, 2019
UniCredit Group is committed to identifying and properly managing all potential conflicts of interests (COI) with 
Germany and Italy During 2019 UniCredit SpA and UniCredit Bank AG received a Statement of Objections from the European 
Commission referring to the investigation by the European Commission of a suspected violation of antitrust  particular regard to:
rules in relation to European government bonds. The subject matter of the investigation extends to certain  •  conflicts in the provision of investment services and activities
periods from 2007 to 2012, and includes alleged activities by UniCredit Bank AG in a part of this period.
•  conflicts in the provision of insurance product distribution services
The Statement of Objections does not prejudge the outcome of the proceeding; should the Commission 
conclude that there is sufficient evidence of an infringement, a decision prohibiting the conduct and  •  conflicts related to the issuance of financial instruments
imposing a fine could be adopted, with any fine subject to a statutory maximum of 10% of the company’s  •  conflicts arising from the administration and/or contribution to financial benchmarks
annual worldwide turnover.
•  conflicts arising from the provision of investment recommendations
UniCredit SpA. and UniCredit Bank AG had access to the entirety of the European Commission’s file on the 
investigation from 15 February 2019 onwards. As a result of the assessment of the files, the Bank regards  •  conflicts in the provision of banking services and activities
it no longer remote but possible, even though not likely, that a cash outflow might be required to fulfill a  •  conflicts arising from employee’s personal interests
potential fine arising from the outcome of the investigation. 
•  organisational conflicts
UniCredit SpA and UniCredit Bank AG responded to the raised objections on 29 April 2019 and participated 
in a hearing before the European Commission on 22-24 October 2019. Proceedings are ongoing. There is no  •  conflicts arising from assignment of services and/or activities to external providers.
legal deadline for the Commission to complete antitrust inquiries.
Country Update on legal actions listed as ongoing in the 2018 Integrated Report UniCredit has implemented a Global Policy that sets standard and rules for properly detecting managing and 
Italy In April 2016, the AGCM notified the extension to UniCredit (and to 10 more banks) of the proceedings I/794  recording conflicts of interest.
ABI/SEDA opened in January vis-à-vis the Italian Banking Association (ABI). The proceedings is aimed at 
ascertaining the existence of alleged concerted practices with reference to the Sepa Compliant Electronic 
Database Alignment system (SEDA). The Group has adopted a unique model for the identification and management of various types of conflicts of 
On 28 April 2017, the AGCM issued a final notice whereby it confirmed that the practices carried out by  interest. The model consists of the following steps:
the ABI, UniCredit and the other banks in connection with the adoption of the SEDA service model of 
1. i dentification of Events/activities pertaining to the Group that could generate conflicts of interest
compensation constituted an anti-competitive practice and therefore a violation of European competition 
regulations. With such notice, the AGCM ordered the parties to cease the infringement, submit a report  2.  identification of the types of conflicts of interest as classified by the Group
evidencing the relevant measures adopted by 1 January 2018 to the AGCM, and refrain from enacting  3. i dentification both of the related Organizational Measures suitable to mitigate/neutralize the various relevant 
similar practices in the future. Given the fact that the infringements were minor in light of the legislative 
conflict of interest types and of the behaviours to implement (e.g. disclosure and/or management)
framework, the AGCM did not impose any monetary or administrative sanctions against UniCredit (or the 
other 10 banks) also in consideration of the fact that, in the course of the proceeding, the ABI and the banks  4.  record keeping of conflicts and
proposed a redefined SEDA service remuneration model which, if correctly implemented by the banks, is  5. c ontrols.
expected to decrease the current SEDA costs by half, which benefits the enterprises utilising the service 
and, ultimately, the end-users of the utilities. UniCredit decided to appeal the AGCM decision at the TAR (the  Key achievements 2019 Priorities 2020
Italian Regional Court). 
1. I ssue of the new Global Process Regulation that provides  1. T he Global Operational Rule Outside Business Interest and 
The appeal is still pending.
precise operational guidelines for the management of Conflicts  the relative tool will be revised (the Policy is currently valid 
Hungary The Hungarian Competition Authority (GVH) began a cartel investigation of 7 Hungarian banks, including  of Interest for the companies of the UniCredit Group that adopt the 
UniCredit Bank Hungary Zrt, in connection with foreign currency mortgage loan repayments (early  2. P erformed Risk Assessment using the new methodology across  Italian collective labour contract). In addition, the Outside 
repayments). In 2013, the GVH fined UniCredit Bank Hungary Zrt. HUF 306,300,000 (roughly €1 million).  all legal entities included in the perimeter Business Interest tool (web application for the management 
The Bank appealed against such decision and the appeal was rejected at first and second instance. 3. H armonisation of the applicability of the Group COI Control  of the external interests of employees linked to their possible 
In December 2016 in the framework of judicial review the Supreme Court (Curia) instructed the Competition  Catalogue professional and business activities) will be implemented 
Authority to conduct a new procedure over fines it had levied on Banks. The Competition Authority  4. P rovided Group rules for the formalisation of the yearly report  in the Group Legal Entities included in the Compliance 
reimbursed the fine paid by the Bank in 2013. on COI Perimeter
In the new proceeding the Hungarian Competition Office re-calculated the fines as a result of which the 
amount of the fine was reduced to HUF 185,000,000 - regarding UniCredit (approx. €572,200). The amount 
of the new fine is roughly 60 percent of the original fine. The Bank appealed against the decision to achieve  Privacy management
further reduction of the fine. In December 2019, the decision has been postponed to February, 2020.
In 2012, the GVH began a cartel investigation on the Hungarian Banking Association, the International 
Training Centre for Bankers and 38 Hungarian Banks (including UniCredit Bank Hungary Zrt), all of which  UniCredit ensures its compliance with data protection rules by adopting the principles set forth in the Italian 
participating in the BankAdat system, the interbank database for Hungarian credit institutions. At the end  legislation implementing the Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and the Data Protection Code - 
of the investigation, UniCredit Bank Hungary Zrt was not fined but the Hungarian Banking Association was 
Legislative Decree no. 196/2003, as amended by the Legislative Decree No. 101 of 10 August 2018, through dedicated 
fined HUF 4 billion (roughly €13 million) and the International Training Centre for Bankers was fined HUF 
15 million (roughly €48,000). In the event they cannot fulfil their payment obligations, participating banks  internal rules, in particular, the Global Policy on Privacy (which replaced the previous version of the Global Compliance 
that were the objects of the investigation (including UniCredit Bank Hungary Zrt) will be responsible for the  Guidelines on Privacy) issued in March 2015. The Policy was updated in March 2018 to comply with the new GDPR (EU 
payment jointly and severally.
Regulation 2016/679) and further updated in April 2019.
HBA and most of the affected banks appealed against the decision. 
On 10 September 2018 the court decided to repeal the decision and close the proceedings, without any 
fines. GVH did appeal to the Supreme Court against the decision and the action is ongoing. Within the scope of data protection activities, the Compliance Risk Assessment and the second level controls 
Romania On 27 November, 2017, the Competition Council dawn-raided the headquarters of several banks (including  performed by UniCredit are aimed at identifying, monitoring and managing compliance risks in this regulatory area. A 
UniCredit Bank S.A.), financial non-banking institutions, leasing companies (including UniCredit Leasing 
data protection risk assessment group-wide was performed in 2019. A second level control catalogue will be further 
Corporation IFN S.A. and UniCredit Fleet Management), professional associations and employer association 
working in the financial services market. The dawn-raids were conducted within the framework of two  improved in order to cover new processes (e.g. right to be forgotten).
investigations opened by the Competition Authority on the operating lease service market and, respectively, 
on the financial services and consumer credit market.
Furthermore, the Data Protection Office works with the Security Governance function in order to incorporate certain 
The investigations is almost completed by the Authority: on December 2nd, 2019 UniCredit Leasing 
Corporation IFN S.A. submitted to the Competition Council the observations to the Investigation Report. The  flows/results of security controls related to data processing within the overall GDPR Risk Assessment.
observations aim at rebutting the alleged infringement by object and by effect.
At Group Level UniCredit has developed a Data Protection Officer (DPO) Community and a Data Processing Agreement 
A.  The cases reported refer to administrative procedures. For further information related to pending legal actions please refer to the Consolidated Financial 
(DPA) at Group level. The DPO Community is a community developed in order to ensure that the DPOs of the various 
Report 2019, section B. Legal risks.
Legal Entities of UniCredit Group may share their opinion on different issues, experiences, lesson-learnt and local/
S. 26 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report S. 27