Supplement Supplement
→ Human Capital → Human Capital
Welfare and work-life balance3 Retirement plans offered to employees, 2019
Principal retirement  Contribution from  Contribution from 
Country
Since 2018 UniCredit has adopted a global framework for its welfare strategy based on the Human Capital mission  plans employer employees
to create the best place to work. The aim is to attract, retain and engage employees, offering adequate welfare  Defined contribution 
ItalyA 2% or 3%B Minimum 0.5%
plan
standards in all geographies. 
Germany
Welfare initiatives are developed locally in order to offer the right answer to a country’s needs and special 
  UniCredit Bank AG
requirements, with a central coordination to guarantee respect of the Group welfare principles and guidelines.
  W  ealthcap Kapitalverwaltungsgesellschaft  2.5% of gross income up  2.5% of gross income up 
GmbH Defined contribution  to gross yearly income  to a gross yearly income 
In the majority of countries across the Group, we have already established several tailor-made initiatives to meet  plan
  Food & More Gmbh of €61,548 of €61,548
fundamental health and family needs. In 2019, we took further concrete actions by implementing new initiatives 
  UniCredit Services SCpA
with a particular focus on respect for time off and wellbeing.
Defined contribution  4.36% of the agreed  2.14 % of the agreed 
  UniCredit Leasing Gmbh
plan annual income annual income
Social dialogue creates a balance between workers’ needs and business needs by constantly verifying the continuity    UniCredit Direct Services Gmbh No plans Not applicable Not applicable
of initiatives and progress of projects over time. Austria
  UniCredit Bank Austria AG 2.9% or more
Arrangement between 
UniCredit intends to continuously enhance its current practices while fully respecting the specific requirements of    Schoellerbank Aktiengesellschaft Defined contribution  the pension fund and 
individual countries. The innovative approach defined by the Joint Declaration on Work-Life Balance in 2017 aims    Card Complete Service Bank AG plan It depends on length of  employees are made on 
service
to inspire and promote local initiatives by identifying specific macro-areas of focus and promoting a set of concrete    UniCredit Leasing (Austria) GmbH individual basis
actions and clear drivers. Arrangements between 
contribution plan the 
Defined contribution  2.5% of the yearly gross 
Main implementation of the Joint Declaration on Work-Life Balance by macro-area, 2019   UniCredit Services GmbH pension fund and 
plan salary
employee are made on an 
Space and time  individual basis
Macro areas Digitalisation Time management Well-being Cultural change
flexibility Bosnia and Herzegovina No plans Not applicable Not applicable
Geographic areas Italy, Germany,  Italy, Germany,  Italy, CEE Italy, Germany,  Italy, Germany,  Bulgaria No plans Not applicable Not applicable
Austria, CEE Austria, CEE Austria, CEE Austria, CEE
Croatia No plans Not applicable Not applicable
Examples • P roper use of  • R emote work •  Respect of  • W  elfare plans • T raining to 
Czech Republic
corporate devices • M  obility initiatives working hours •  Health prevention  managers to 
•  Flexible working  •  E-mail  programmes foster a culture of  20,000 CZK  Arrangements between 
hours management • C anteens and  inclusion Defined contribution  (approximately €780)  the pension fund and 
  UniCredit Bank Czech Republic and Slovakia, as
• Sabbatical leaves •  Day without  healthy food  •  Communication  plan not applicable to all  employee are made on an 
• S pecific leaves for  meetings initiatives campaign on  employees individual basis
key life events • S port initiatives work-life balance
Arrangements between 
•  Leaves for  •  Kindergartens • T raining to 
Defined contribution  15,000 CZK  the pension fund and 
volunteering and  •  Psychological  managers    UniCredit Leasing CZ as
plan (approximately €600) employee are made on an 
social activities support managing teams 
individual basis
working remotely
• E ncourage    UniCredit Services SCpA No plans Not applicable Not applicable
recruiting and  Hungary No plans Not applicable Not applicable
return to work of 
Romania
mothers after a 
long maternity    UniCredit Bank SA
leave   UniCredit Consumer Financing IFN SA
No plans Not applicable Not applicable
  UniCredit Leasing Corporation IFN SA
In Italy a best practice is represented by the Conto Welfare initiative. Since 2012, thanks to favourable fiscal 
  UniCredit Leasing Fleet Management Srl
provisions our employees have been offered the opportunity to use a portion of their variable compensation to 
  UniCredit Services SCpA Arrangements between 
cover certain personal and family needs in a tax efficient way. Initially, only education, health and pension fund  Approximately 100 RON 
Defined contribution  the pension fund and 
needs were taken into account whilst the range of services has been extended over the years, in line with the Group    UniCredit Services GmbH plan (apthpero mxiomnathtelyly s €a2la1r)y of  employee are made on an 
welfare strategy, to meet our employees’ needs with regard to flexibility, well-being and the work-life balance.  individual basis
Today 80% of our colleagues use their Conto Welfare to cover services ranging from nursery and school fees or care  Defined contribution  7% of the monthly base  7% of the monthly base 
Russia
plan salary salary
for elderly and disabled family members to health, public transport, travel, sport and culture.
Serbia No plans Not applicable Not applicable
Slovenia No plans Not applicable Not applicable
A.  The reported contribution percentages refer to the second section of the Fondo Pensione per il Personale delle Aziende del Gruppo UniCredit, the pension fund 
currently open to new participants.
B.  A further contribution of 2 percent for newly recruited staff (art. 46, paragraph 3 - National Collective Bargaining Agreement of ABI, March 3, 2015) is added to 
this assumption for 4 consecutive years; consequently, the contribution from the employer amounts to 4 percent for this category.
3. 2019 data represents 100 percent of the reporting perimeter.
S. 40 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report S. 41