Ethics and Respect:  Ethics and Respect: Do the right thing!
Do the right thing!
2019 began with the approval of our Ethics and Respect manifesto  Our achievements in 2019 can be summarised as follows:
which was published both in the 2018 Integrated Report and the Annual 
GOVERNANCE
Report. This was the first step of many representing and reinforcing our 
commitment to doing the right thing in relation to all our stakeholders. 
In order to increase the internal presidium  Human Capital and Group Compliance 
Below is a dashboard of the concrete actions undertaken in 2019, which  and coordination among the different areas  functions, periodically updates the 
will be illustrated in detail in the following chapters. involved in the application and monitoring of  Corporate Governance, Nomination and 
E&R topics, in 2019 the position of Chief  Sustainability Committee (CGN&S) on:
Ethics	Officer	(CEtO)	was	created.	This	 • t raining regarding the topics of ethics and 
role ensures that the Group fosters  professional conduct 
the Do the right thing! culture with all  • w  histleblowing, including bullying, sexual 
Our Ethics and Respect (E&R) values, together  Ethics	and	Respect	values	unite	us	and	define	
stakeholders, provides Group guidelines  misconduct, harassment, and acts of retaliation
with our simple guiding principle to Do the  our Group culture: how we take decisions and 
on ethical topics and, in coordination with  • internal regulations (e.g. Code of Conduct).
right thing! are applied to everything we  how we act on them. Do the right thing! is the 
do at all times and are at the core of our  guiding principle which helps us live by these 
interactions with our stakeholders in order to  values. Furthermore, it indicates how to work as 
generate sustainable results. One Team, One UniCredit and supports us in the 
fulfilment	of	our	Five Fundamentals which guide  RISK MANAGEMENT
our daily actions and operations. 
Ethics and Respect and Do the right thing! are at  embedded in the new Team 23 strategic plan, 
the core of all our stakeholder interactions and  and issued new business policies that 
we want to Do the right thing, also for the  regulate our approach to controversial 
environment! UniCredit wishes to keep working  sectors with greatest impact on climate 
on reducing its own direct impact and to be a  change, such as Coal, and Arctic and 
partner in the shift towards a low-carbon economy  Non-Conventional Oil & Gas.
also through a new Sustainable Finance Advisory 
Team which combines sustainability expertise with  The Group also decided to support 
that of capital markets to deepen dialogue on ESG  the TCFD1 recommendations and to 
topics with clients and facilitate their access to  participate, together with other banks, 
Europe’s	green	financing	market. in road testing the Paris Agreement 
Capital Transition Assessment (PACTA) 
Moreover, during 2019 we also set  methodology developed by 2° Investing 
clear	2023	targets	on	client	financing  Initiative (2°ii).
NATURAL CAPITAL
All initiatives put in place in 2019 are in 
This demonstrates that at UniCredit the way 
line with our values and guiding principle, 
we achieve results is just as important as 
demonstrating our commitment to making  UniCredit took part in the Global Week of Climate  tangible ideas proposed by our employees to 
the results themselves.
them more tangible and ensuring they are  Action in 2019. All colleagues worked  contribute to a more sustainable future.
consistently adopted and applied at all levels,  together on 20 September and came up with 
wherever we operate. over 1,200 ideas on how to protect our climate.  Our Plastic-free project was also launched: UniCredit 
These initiatives are now overseen by the  is distributing re-usable metal drinking 
Millennial Board which reviewed them and is  bottles across the Group to reduce single-use 
now working on the implementation of the most  plastic in break areas and canteens.
1. Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures.
14 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 15