Supplement Supplement
→ Social and relationship Capital → Social and relationship Capital
Adherence to legal standards and voluntary codes  Sustainable and Responsible Investments (SRI)
relating to marketing and communications
Sustainable and Responsible Investing (SRI) and Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) topics are a major 
part of our Group wealth management investment strategy. For us SRI means creating value for financial investors 
UniCredit follows the Code of Marketing Communication Self-Regulation (www.iap.it) disseminated by the Istituto  through a strategy with a long-term horizon and, which, in assessing enterprises, institutions and countries 
dell’Autodisciplina Pubblicitaria (IAP), which commits its subscribers to transparent and honest advertising  integrates financial variables with ESG variables. 
practices. The fund selection process that has been structured is rigorous and in recent years has also included ESG
investments. The aim of the process is to cover all classes of funds and take into account also the internal market 
UniCredit is also a member of the Utenti Pubblicità Associati (UPA) which supports the IAP. All UniCredit entities  view and asset allocation decisions.
follow the regulations disseminated by these bodies, particularly when local codes do not provide guidance on  Five different categories of ESG investments have been identified, based on customer needs: Exclusion and Norm 
topics covered by the UPA. Based Agreements, ESG integration/Best in class, Thematic Investments, Engagement and Impact Investing. If 
the aim of clients is to exclude some business sectors, certain funds will be presented to them, while for clients 
All advertising and communication activities at UniCredit are managed by our Group Identity & Communication  interested in engagement others will be selected. This approach reflects our service model: listening to customers 
department, which is responsible for assuring the effective application of the IAP’s code, as well as the oversight of  and proposing them the best investment strategies that reflect their objectives including sustainable funds
the UniCredit’s Supervisory Body.
The funds selected are constantly monitored in relation to risk and performance, and if an ESG fund is involved, 
In advertising related to investment products, all texts are submitted to the Commissione Nazionale per le Società  it needs to be continuously checked to make sure it is consistent with the approach indicated by the manager 
e la Borsa (CONSOB) in Italy so they can be evaluated for regulatory compliance and consistency with the principles  during the due diligence phase. If the characteristics for which the funds were selected cease to exist, then they are 
of truth and transparency. immediately excluded from our buy list.
ESG investments also represent a diversification opportunity for all customers: the identified funds tend to be 
Main legal standards and voluntary codes relating to marketing and communications 
constructed differently compared to funds with a traditional approach and can improve in some aspects the 
adopted by the Group Legal entities
portfolio risk-return profile.
Country Description Asset under Management (AuM) invested in ESG funds as at December 31, 2019A (€m)
Austria Advertising Industry Ethics Code of the Austrian Society for Self - Regulation in Advertising (Werberat)
Bulgaria Code of Ethics of the Association of Banks in Bulgaria Italy Germany Austria CEE
Croatia Code of Advertising issued by the Croatian Association of Advertising Agencies 607.4 506.3 630.8 68.7
Hungary Banking Association's Code of Conduct
A. The figures reported refer to the funds on deposit. CEE include Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Russia and Slovakia.
S. 52 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report S. 53