Ethics and Respect: Do the right thing! Our commitments on data
COMPLIANCE
Disseminating the importance of business  New channels dedicated to third parties have been 
ethics and risk culture: our	first	group-wide	 set up and an extended description of Serious  Data is everywhere and has the power to benefit our everyday lives in countless ways. 
Compliance Day took place across 13  Reports in line with the new escalation process 
At UniCredit, we use data inside and outside our organisation to improve how we 
countries with an overall reach of more than  has been submitted to the Board of Directors of all 
serve and interact with our clients to ensure that we always provide you with banking 
50,000 colleagues. relevant Legal Entities. 
that matters.
We endeavour to create an engaging and positive 
working environment in order to do the right thing  UniCredit’s credo is “Ethics & Respect: Do the right thing!” This runs through everything 
for our colleagues. Driven by the E&R principle, 
we do, including and most importantly in how we handle and use your data.
UniCredit recently updated the Global 
Policy on Whistleblowing.
On this page we outline our commitments to you. 
HUMAN CAPITAL We will ALWAYS:
From a Human Capital perspective, two  Creating an engaging and positive  • Make sure your data is used in an ethical and respectful manner
new global policies were issued for our  working environment is also managed  • Endeavour to protect your data to the utmost of our ability
employees: one against harassment,  via dedicated initiatives, which is why 
• Be transparent with you about the use of your data
sexual misconduct and bullying, the  UniCredit set up its first group-wide 
• Follow your personal data processing choices.
other against acts of retaliation. These  Diversity and Inclusion Week, fostering 
new policies lead to a greater awareness on  an inclusive culture across 15 countries and 
unacceptable behaviours and promote a ‘speak  involving around 13,600 colleagues.  We WILL use data to:
up’ culture where all employees feel listened to 
and protected when reporting misconducts.
•  Improve the products we offer you, making them more relevant to your individual needs 
of our services
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL •  Provide	more	efficient	and	intuitive	customer	service,	designed	around	the	way	you	
want to connect with us
•  Safeguard your data and information, using advanced tools to support the detection of 
We are continuously improving the quality of 
service for our customers and are committed  any unusual transactions and alert you
to data protection and privacy. •  Continuously strengthen our cyber security protective measures in order to intercept 
phishing and fraudulent activity, and other criminal activity.
2019 cascading on E&RA
We will NOT 
In 2019 an extensive internal campaign on E&R was carried out to boost engagement:
Sell your data to any third party, nor will we share your data with anyone unless 
your specifically request us to do so - other than with our own operations service 
providers, partners and affiliates when necessary to run our operations. The only 
~80
 news items published  55 exception being if the bank is compelled under law.
since the announcement… … 
at Group level…
The	development	and	use	of	Artificial	Intelligence,	such	as	virtual	assistants,	is	spreading	
quickly. At UniCredit we are committed to doing the right thing, and will always endeavour 
to apply the highest standard of privacy and data protection to our processes aiming at a 
… a new news item every  fair, unbiased and non-discriminatory treatment of all customers.
2 days
 on the Group and  25
… and   local
local intranets, of which… If you would like further information as to how we apply our principles, please contact 
(WEU and CEE countries)B
data.transparency@unicredit.eu
A. Data as at 12.12.2019
B. Western Europe (including Italy, Germany and Austria) and Central and Eastern Europe
16 UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report UniCredit • 2019 Integrated Report 17