Reply is collaborating with leading OEMs to produce  The customer experience too has changed form 
commercial versions of V2I platforms (Vehicle to  in this new situation and has become a factor in 
Infrastructure). There have been developments in  differentiating retailers: today’s customers want an 
on-board (infotainment and telematics box) as well  ever-closer relationship with brands and expect 
as mobile and back-end software applications to  to be able to interact with them wherever they 
process data received and deliver B2C and B2B  are, breaking down the barrier between physical 
services.  stores and e-commerce. A completely personalised 
purchasing experience is essential to generating a 
There was another leap forward in electric and  positive perception of interaction with companies 
hybrid vehicle development. The charging process  and brands. This makes it essential to base 
for this transport category needs to be optimised  strategies on data, including real-time analysis of 
in terms of both speed and logistics. To this end,  customer behaviour and seamless integration of the 
Reply drew on the firm foundation of its mobile and  digital and physical world. 
cloud platform development experience to design 
connected vehicle service platforms together with  Reply also supports traditional retailers in adding 
business customers. These can supplement data  digital functionality to their business, incorporating 
from on-board systems with data on the internet  the very latest technology in their work and daily 
in order to calculate the best routes between the  interaction with customers. In 2019, it collaborated 
various charging stations. Reply has also worked  with a large number of European retailers to 
with the leading European shared mobility operator  introduce voice assistants and solutions based on 
to create a vehicle–infrastructure communication  augmented and virtual reality to revolutionise the 
control unit, developing both hardware and software.   shopping experience, eliminating the divide between 
digital and in-store.
Finally, 2019 saw Reply confirm its leadership in 
the sector of logistics IT solutions to support the  ENERGY & UTILITY 
automotive industry. Projects involved leading OEMs 
and the whole supply chain, from production to  Increasingly advanced digital technologies are 
factory logistics, aftersales distribution and transport. having a major impact in energy and utility services 
throughout the chain. Digitalisation is now affecting 
RETAIL all phases, from generation to sales and consumption 
monitoring. 2019 confirmed a trend of growth in 
The retail sector has already been profoundly  innovative technologies on an industrial scale, across 
altered by developments in customers’ purchasing  the entire value chain. These technologies can also 
behaviour, new players in the market, e-commerce,  support sustainability policies, a key theme for 2020. 
and radical digitalisation of products and services. 
10