Cloud computing has become the leading  offers a twofold advantage, for both patients and 
provisioning tool, while the approach based on IoT  healthcare professionals. 
models is increasingly widespread in the areas of   
generation and energy management and is used to  On one hand, it allows the public and patients to 
support efficiency and smart city initiatives. Moreover,  access their health information through unified, 
there’s a growing trend among the biggest businesses  interoperable digital platforms and share it securely 
in the sector to develop open innovation approaches,  and voluntarily with doctors, nurses and other people 
which includes research in collaboration with  involved. On the other, it permits a connection 
innovative start-ups. between all people who come into contact with the 
n
patient, integration of the various IT systems, data  o
ati
m
Against this backdrop of extensive transformation,  and information exchange and availability of patients’  or
nf
Reply is one of the reference partners in the sector,  clinical history so that they can benefit from the  al i
ci
combining knowledge of the market and of its unique  support of effective diagnosis and care processes.  n
a
n
fi
processes, with a distinctive capability to design,  n-
o
n
implement and manage innovative digital solutions  Reply occupies a leading position in innovation within  of 
e 
and technological platforms that support the “core  the field of healthcare and data. It brings together  ur
s
o
business”. all of its expertise in innovative technologies like  cl
s
di
big data, cloud computing, digital media and the  d 
e
at
The company’s consolidated expertise in the  Internet of Things plus clinical and healthcare know- olid
s
introduction of new digital technologies has been  how to offer platforms for interoperability and tailor- on
C
further verticalized. Reply works with both energy  made suites, beginning with those for Reception 
sales companies and end customers to define and  and Patient Relationship Management processes 
develop new models for energy management and  and extending to taking care of patients as well as 
downstream services, and experimentation and  continuity of care.
collaboration continued in connection with blockchain, 
advanced analytics and artificial intelligence 
applications for the sector. 
HEALTHCARE & GOVERNMENT 
Health and technology are increasingly connected, 
with health developing in the direction of a new 
“ecosystem” able to incorporate all phases involving 
patients, from prevention, to care, to follow-up. The 
model goes by the name of “connected care” and 
10 11