THE REPLY TEAM CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
•	 Sharing of the customer’s objectives;  Reply S.p.A. is listed on the Italian Stock Exchange 
•	 Professionalism and speed of implementation; and present in FTSE Italia Mid Cap and FTSE Italia 
•	 Culture and flexibility. STAR indexes.
The Corporate Governance system adopted by 
Excellence: the underlying culture, research,  Reply adheres to the Corporate Governance Code 
attention to quality, reliability and the creation of  for Italian Listed Companies issued by Borsa Italiana 
value from results. S.p.A. in March 2006, which was updated in July 
n
2018, with the additions and amendments related to  atio
m
Teamwork: collaboration, the transfer of ideas and  the specific characteristics of the Group. or
nf
knowledge, the sharing of objectives and results,  In compliance with regulatory obligations the  al i
ci
respect for personal strengths and differences. annually drafted “Report on Corporate Governance  an
n
fi
and Ownership Structures” contains a general  n-
o
n
Customer: the sharing of objectives, customer  description of the corporate governance system  of 
e 
satisfaction, conscientiousness, professionalism, a  adopted by the Group, reporting information on  ur
s
o
sense of responsibility, integrity. ownership structures and compliance with the  scl
di
Corporate Governance Code, including the main  ed 
at
d
Innovation: imagination, experimentation, courage,  governance practices applied and the characteristics  oli
s
n
research, the quest for improvement. of the risk management and internal control system  o
C
also with respect to the financial reporting process. 
Speed: methodology, experience in project  (The aforementioned Report is available on the 
management, collaboration, commitment to  Corporate Governance section of the Reply website. 
achieving results and meeting customer objectives. The Corporate Governance Code is available on the 
website of Borsa Italiana S.p.A.)
The Board of Directors, on an annual basis and 
at the proposal of the Remuneration Committee, 
establishes a Remuneration Policy which 
incorporates the recommendations of the Corporate 
Governance Code and regulations issued by 
Consob. In accordance with legislation, the 
Remuneration Policy forms the first part of the Report 
on Remuneration and will be submitted for review by 
Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the 2019 
financial statements.
12 13