MAIN NON-FINANCIAL RISKS AND UN- there follows an overview of the main risks 
CERTAINTIES TO WHICH REPLY S.P.A.  generated or suffered in relation to the five areas 
AND THE GROUP ARE EXPOSED 
referred to in Legislative Decree 254/16, deriving 
from corporate activities, products, services or 
In addition to risk factors reported in Main Risks and  business relationships, including supply chains and 
Uncertainties to which Reply S.p.A. and the Group  subcontracting where relevant.
are exposed, shown in the Report on Operations, 
Leg. Decree  Management method and 
Risk description
254 area mitigation actions
Group success depends largely on several key  Reply’s operational and managerial 
figures that have made a decisive contribution to  structure is able to ensure continuity 
its development, for instance the Chairman and  in corporate governance.
Executive Directors of the Reply S.p.A. parent company. 
Moreover, Reply has a leadership team with many years 
of experience in the sector and playing a crucial role 
in the management of Group business. The loss of any 
of these key figures and failure to find an adequate 
substitute or to attract and retain new, qualified 
personnel could therefore have adverse effects on 
the Group’s business prospects, earnings and financial 
EMPLOYEE  position.
MATTERS
The Group operates in the ICT service segment,  Reply works on a regular basis with 
which is characterised by fast, important technological  many universities and research cen-
tres, both in Italy and abroad, with 
developments and constant evolution of professional 
projects such as ReplyU social me-
skills and expertise. Thus, Reply business relies on its  dia profiles, Reply Challenges on-
ability to attract and retain new, well-qualified human  line initiatives and university events 
resources, as well as being able to foresee adequate  such as Student Tech Clashes. 
Furthermore, Reply has imple-
training programs to provide workers with the tools 
mented a platform for document 
they need to develop innovative solutions. The 
archiving and for sharing insights, 
inability to attract resources and prepare such training  links, opinions, and documentation, 
programs could have a negative impact on the Group’s  to encourage employees to keep 
abreast of the most recent develop-
future prospects.
ments in the ICT sector.
14