Leg. Decree  Management method and 
Risk description
254 area mitigation actions
The Group is committed to ensuring respect for  Reply shares its Code of Ethics 
diversity and equal opportunities among employees  with all Group employees and 
at all times. Nonetheless, the absence of a specific  independent contractors and 
policy to manage these aspects might leave Reply  requires them to accept its contents.
unprepared for responding to relevant current 
legislation or regulations or arising in future.
EMPLOYEE 
Although Group activities do not pose high risks for the  Reply workers health and safety is 
MATTERS
safety of employees and independent contractors, it is  managed through practices and 
important to guarantee a safe and healthy workplace.  procedures based on OHSAS  on
Failure to comply with applicable legislation on  Standard 18001.  Several Group  ati
m
workplace health and safety at work could lead to  companies have approved specific  or
nf
legislative non-conformity and ultimately have negative  health and safety policies, if required  al i
effects on the Group. by legislation or market practices. nci
a
n
In most cases, the Reply Group does not own the  The Reply Group has defined and  n-fi
o
premises that house its offices. This situation means  communicated its Environmental  n
the company is unable to put in place direct energy  Policy.  e of 
efficiency measures that might bring financial benefits  Reply is engaged in the Carbon  sur
o
or improve environmental performance.  Disclosure Project (CDP) for its  cl
s
Moreover, the absence of an emissions management  Supply Chain. d di
e
program might bring a risk of damage to the Group’s  at
d
reputation, especially if it is required to report  oli
s
ENVIRONMENTAL  environmental performance. on
C
MATTERS In conducting its business, the Reply Group produces  Reply’s electrical and electronic 
waste, including special waste (e.g. WEEE), whose  waste is entrusted to external 
disposal is covered by specific legal requirements.  authorised companies for correct 
Failure to implement a program for monitoring waste  disposal. 
disposal methods, may mean the Group is non-  Reply recycles any unused 
compliant with current legislation. functioning computers and donates 
them to schools located near its 
main Italian offices.
14 15