CORPORATE VALUES AND 
ETHICAL PRINCIPLES
REPLY’S CODE OF ETHICS required to comply with the law and with the 
obligations defined in their respective contracts 
In ensuring that all their corporate activities  and in the Code of Ethics, working diligently to 
are based on principles of proper conduct and  safeguard corporate assets. The Reply Group is 
transparency, Reply and its subsidiaries adopt  committed to achieving maximum results to protect 
a Code of Ethics approved on 28 March 2008,  workplace health and safety for employees, and 
distributed and circulated in all the countries where  operates respecting local and national communities, 
the Group operates. This code was developed to  contributing to the circulation and awareness of 
ensure that the Reply Group’s key ethical values  sustainable development.
n
are clearly defined and constitute the basic element  Furthermore, the Group’s Code of Ethics describes  o
ati
m
of corporate culture, as well as set a standard of  the relationship with public authorities and  or
nf
conduct for all those working for the Group with  institutions, delegated to those who are formally  al i
ci
regard to business and non-business affairs. The  appointed within the individual companies and have  n
a
n
fi
document is intended for all Group stakeholders,  explicit mandate. Relationships with institutions are  n-
o
n
namely: shareholders, employees, independent  based on legality, transparency, clarity, and integrity,  of 
e 
contractors, suppliers, customers, and business  in full compliance with current applicable legislation. ur
s
o
partners. The fundamental ethical principles  Relationships with customers are founded on  cl
s
di
of the Group are: worker professionalism and  shared objectives, in the spirit of professionalism,  d 
e
at
reliability; legality and honesty of Group activities  responsibility, and integrity. Group workers shall  olid
s
in compliance with current legislation; impartiality,  therefore aim to maintain and develop existing  n
o
C
which carries with it respect for diversity and  relationships to the highest quality standards, to 
no discrimination among workers; and integrity,  satisfy the customer’s reasonable expectations, 
prevention of potential conflicts of interest, as well  which will be monitored on a regular basis. The 
as transparency regarding all business practices  selection of suppliers and stipulation of terms and 
involving the recipients of the Code. Furthermore,  conditions applicable to purchase of goods and 
the Code of Ethics defines the rules of conduct that  services for Group companies shall be dictated 
define Reply’s relationship with its stakeholders. by the values and criteria of legality, competition, 
objectivity, integrity, impartiality, fair price, quality 
The relationship with its employees is developed  of goods and/or services, with a careful evaluation 
through specialisation of skills, attention to quality  of product warranty and range of offers. Security 
and cooperation for achieving objectives, and  of information systems is one of the requirements 
constant assessment of the contribution made by  specified as fundamental in Reply’s Code of Ethics. 
each resource to company results. All the Group’s  IT security is guaranteed by implementing the 
independent contractors and consultants are  necessary procedures and technical mechanisms 
18 19