to ensure the reliability of processed information,  channels are currently in place to report episodes of 
as well as the effectiveness and efficiency of the  corruption.
services rendered by the Group. MOGC 231 specifies processes at risk of corruption 
and they include management of entertainment 
In conducting its business, the Reply Group focuses  expenses, gifts, sponsorships, and generic 
mainly on principles based on transparency and  donations. 
integrity, respecting the expectations of the various 
stakeholders and regulatory provisions. In this  For this reason, the Group has formalised a “Policy of 
regard, the most important aspects for the Group,  Gifts, Entertainment Expenses, Sponsorships”, valid 
considering its business, relate to regulatory  for each of the Group companies and containing 
compliance, protection of customer data, and  guidelines to be applied so as to avoid conduct 
responsible management of workers. that will fail to comply with legislative provisions and 
internal rules of conduct.
COMPLIANCE AND THE FIGHT AGAINST  There is a formal Whistleblowing Policy, again at 
CORRUPTION Group level, encouraging employees to report any 
To maintain its business relationships with private  suspected wrongdoing as soon as possible and 
and public entities, the Reply Group considers  reassuring that any such report will not affect their 
compliance with current legislation to be essential,  working conditions.
also with reference to unfair competitive practices,  The term “wrongdoing” refers to non-compliance 
anti-corruption and bribery. with applicable legislation, violations of the Code of 
In Italy, Reply has adopted an Organisation,  Ethics and/or Group Policy, and, more generally, to 
Management and Control Model in accordance with  actions that may damage (for example in economic, 
Legislative Decree 231/2001. This is a structured  environmental, workplace safety terms) the Reply 
overall system of control procedures and processes  Group companies and stakeholders.
aimed at preventing any non-compliant behaviour,  The policy describes the ways in which employees 
including corruption, whenever possible.  Group  are required to report such events, namely by 
employees are required to comply with the MOGC  reporting to the Supervisory Body, which guarantees 
231 and related procedures, which specify operative  the confidentiality of reports, as well as the 
models for conducting various business processes.  informant’s anonymity (in accordance with Legislative 
These procedures have been adopted to reinforce  Decree 196/03 – EU Regulation 679/2016, of the 
the internal control system, specifically those related  General Data Protection Regulation).
to corporate corruption and crimes. To verify the  The Supervisory Body is tasked with verifying the 
effective application of these procedures, internal  reports and relaying them to the Reply S.p.A. Board, 
audits are performed on a regular basis. Moreover,  which then will decide whether to implement an 
in each country where the Group operates, specific  intervention plan.
20