An Anti-Bribery Policy was issued in the United  At corporate level, the Code of Ethics was accepted 
Kingdom and other Region 31 countries in 2019 in  by 99% of executives, 98% of managers, and 94% of 
keeping with the provisions of the 2010 Bribery Act,  staff employees. 
which lays down penalties for the crime of corruption  With regard to suppliers, it should be noted that at 
in both the public and private sectors. the time of formalising contracts, they are required to 
sign a Master Agreement valid at Group level, which 
Indicators includes specific clauses for accepting the principles 
In 2019, as in the previous years, no episodes of  outlined in the Code of Ethics.
corruption were registered in any of the Group’s 
n
companies, nor were legal proceedings initiated for  DATA PROTECTION o
ati
m
reasons linked to corruption, unfair competition or  The security of our information systems is a  or
nf
monopoly practices. Moreover, no monetary or non- fundamental requirement for ensuring the reliability  al i
ci
monetary sanctions were received for violation of  of the data processed, as well as the effectiveness  n
a
n
fi
any socio-economic laws or regulations.  and efficiency of the services provided by the  n-
o
n
In Italy, employees are notified of the 231 Model upon  company. Reply’s commitment to data protection  of 
e 
entry; it must be accepted explicitly, and a test must  and associated aspects is aimed specifically at  ur
s
o
be passed. In 2019 the acceptance figure was 95%  safeguarding:  cl
s
di
of employees: in detail, 92% of executives and 95%  •	 confidentiality of data, ensuring it is accessible  ed 
at
of managers and staff employees. only to authorised people;  olid
s
•	 integrity, safeguarding completeness of data and  on
C
In Region 3, notification of the anti-bribery policy  transfer methods; 
began in 2019, with explicit acceptance by 68% of  •	 availability of data, granting authorised users 
employees: in detail, 90% of executives, 92% of  access to the data and handling methods for such 
managers and 63% of staff employees. It should be  data whenever necessary.
noted that this acceptance procedure has not yet 
been applied to all companies in the Region.  As part of IT security management, the Reply Group 
As of 31 December 2019, 100% of Region 2  has adopted an ICT Security Policy to provide a set 
employees signed the Code of Ethics. In Region  of criteria for the correct and secure management 
1, the percentage was 95%, while in Region 3 it  of information related to project activities performed 
was 76% (acceptance monitoring is currently being  in house or at customer premises, in compliance 
implemented in recently acquired companies). with the requirements of relevant key standards. 
The policy uses international best practices like 
1  Region 1: Italy, USA, Brazil, Poland, Romania,  ISO Standard 27001 as a reference, which defines 
India.
the requirements for setting up and managing an 
  Region 2: Germany, China, Croatia.
   Region 3: United Kingdom, Luxembourg,  information security management system.
Belgium, Netherlands, France, Belarus.
20 21