The Reply Group has formalised the process to  contractors are country specific. In Italy, fulfilment 
be followed in the event of re-use or disposal of  of social security obligations and compliance with 
hardware containing data processed by the Group.  employment status of independent contractors is 
In particular, the purpose of this procedure is to  checked.
prevent any possible unauthorised access, use and  In the United Kingdom, the Modern Slavery Policy 
disclosure of data contained in hardware reused,  was enacted, as required by local legislation. 
resold, returned in the case of leasing, discarded,  In Germany, given the nature of independent 
or more generally used for different purposes or by  contractors, who are largely individual freelancers, no 
different owners. such assessment process was followed. 
The process describes: All contracts signed by the Group require that 
•	 methods for reuse or disposal of hardware; independent contractors and suppliers accept and 
•	 secure removal methods for each type of  apply the Group’s Code of Ethics. 
hardware;
•	 methods for demagnetisation and physical  Indicators
destruction of hardware; The percentage of new suppliers that were screened 
•	 supplier selection criteria with respect to  using social criteria in 2019 was 65.2% compared to 
hardware destruction and disposal. 79.5% in 2018, and 42.0% in 2017.
As already indicated, this type of checking is not 
Indicators carried out in Germany, since the work is performed 
During 2019, as in previous years, there were no  by individual freelancers. Without taking Germany 
registered complaints regarding privacy violations or  into consideration, there is an 89% evaluation figure 
customer data loss. for Region 1 and 83% for Region 3.
MANAGEMENT OF INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS
The selection process and the focus on building 
virtuous, long-lasting relationships with independent 
contractors is essential to the Group. Independent 
contractors work both at Reply and customer 
premises, so they are assessed and managed 
carefully. To this end, a structured selection, 
assessment and qualification process of independent 
contractors is in place, centrally managed by 
the Sourcing division, which monitors level of 
performance and encourages ongoing development.
The social criteria used to evaluate independent 
24