RESEARCH AND 
DEVELOPMENT OF TALENT
The Reply Group’s success and growth are  To promote knowledge-sharing activities and 
supported thanks to the commitment and excellence  corporate welfare, the Reply Social Network unit has 
of the people who work in its Italian and international  been established, engaging employees (“Replyers”) 
offices. Reply’s women and men represent the brand  through both informal and formal learning paths 
and the image of the Group with customers, partners  and activities, using digital channels and events. 
and external stakeholders. For this reason, the Group  Attracting and retaining staff are extremely important 
invests constantly in their growth and development,  processes for Reply, and the process is applied in full 
guaranteeing career paths and creating the  compliance with all applicable legislation, respecting 
conditions for a supportive, inspirational work  the principles of transparency and assessment of 
n
environment. In a competitive and evolving scenario,  skills, ability and professionalism. Reply acquires  o
ati
m
Reply’s employees are committed to imagining,  the best talents through privileged relationships  or
nf
experimenting and studying new solutions, to  with several Italian and European universities and  al i
ci
support business development and grow the Group’s  research centres, so as to enrich its workforce with  n
a
n
fi
ability to improve and meet new challenges at all  high-profile personnel.  n-
o
n
times. The values of professional skills, timeliness,  A range of activities has been developed to engage  of 
e 
flexibility, innovation, attention to quality, and sharing  students, including ReplyU, an employer branding  ur
s
o
of customer objectives are the underpinning of  initiative to introduce Reply to university students  cl
s
di
Group policies in human resources management. from all over Europe, and Student Tech Clash, a  d 
e
at
Currently, the Group expresses its goals of  contest for universities to stimulate competition  olid
s
developing and leveraging the skills of its personnel  through creativity and the production of innovative  on
C
through tangible actions but not currently formalised  projects. Reply Social Network also includes a 
in corporate policy as it is not deemed necessary  knowledge-sharing platform built for sharing insights 
given the shared goals at all corporate and company  and organising information and trainings events. 
levels. The events are open to all employees and include 
Reply is committed to promoting protection of human  seminars and workshops for sharing the best 
rights, avoiding any form of discrimination of race,  projects delivered to clients and presenting research 
gender, sexual orientation, physical and health  and innovation experiences.
conditions, disability, age, nationality, religion, or  Training actions include Reply Social Network, a 
personal opinion. vehicle for proposing and managing all courses for 
To avoid and prevent any episodes of discrimination,  improvement of communication abilities and soft 
an internal whistleblowing system has been put  skills. Technical training is not managed at corporate 
in place, for reporting any irregular behaviour or  level but locally by each Group company, in order to 
violations of the applicable regulations and internal  find the best fit for specific training needs.
procedures. The Supervisory Body is responsible for  Reply pays close attention to safeguarding 
the system and ensures anonymity of reports.  employee health and safety, both by implementing 
24 25