FOCUS ON ENVIRONMENTAL 
THEMES
As specified in the Code of Ethics, the Reply Group is  14001:2015 certification, is aimed at minimising 
committed to managing its business activities paying  negative environmental impact, to guarantee 
close attention to environmental issues, contributing to  regulatory compliance and promote continuous 
diffusion of sustainability culture to respect the legacy  environmental performance improvement. 
for future generations. Reply works mainly in offices 
and most of the services are delivered by employees  The main guidelines defined by the policy are 
directly at client premises. Consequently, environmental  intended for all employees and cover the following: 
impact is limited to consumption of energy resources  document printing, materials recycling, energy 
(for office heating and lighting) and the ensuing impact  saving, energy efficiency, transport, and consumption 
n
on climate change.  reporting. For each aspect, a number of rules of  o
ati
m
In most cases the Group does not own the premises  conduct are outlined as the underpinning to daily  or
nf
out of which it operates and cannot implement energy  choices, both for the individual and at corporate  al i
ci
efficiency measures itself, but it has put in place  level: use of public transport, preferring devices  n
a
n
fi
environmental policy guidelines to reduce and monitor  with high energy efficiency, decreasing document  n-
o
n
the impact of corporate activities on the environment,  printing, complying with separate waste collection  of 
e 
including aspects related to energy consumption and  requirements in offices. Environmental policy also  ur
s
o
green-house gas emissions. The guidelines enable  identifies the roles, responsibilities, tools and  cl
s
di
evaluation of the external and internal context in  activities to be implemented for monitoring impact,  d 
e
at
which the Group operates, with particular reference to  raising environmental awareness, communication,  olid
s
policies implemented by the European Union and other  and reporting. on
C
international organisations (i.e. GHG Protocol, Carbon 
Disclosure Project), identifying the main environmental  The Group’s activity to raise awareness of 
impact areas and relative tools for addressing the  environmental issues affects the fabric of society 
issues.  outside of Reply, including “Student Clash” initiatives, 
which are events that aim to develop new ideas in 
These include:  collaboration with universities.  
In 2019, the theme of Student Clash events was the 
•	 the GHG Emissions Control Program, inspired by  Green Internet of Things (IoT), with Precision Farming 
the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), and applied  and Energy & Utilities as specific contexts. This 
to monitor impact in terms of GHG emissions,  involved around 500 students from the Turin and 
implement measures to decrease GHG emissions,  Milan Polytechnics who set about generating 125 
and to meet stakeholder expectations; business ideas.
•	 the Environmental Monitoring System, with 
which the Reply Public Sector Consortium and its 
Italian consortiums gained and maintained ISO 
30 31