METHODOLOGY
The Reply Group’s consolidated disclosure of non-  The CFO selects the non-financial information and 
financial information complies with the requirements  indicators subject to reporting from those proposed 
of Legislative Decree 254/16 and subsequent  by the GRI Standards on the basis of the results from 
amendments referred to the obligation to report  the materiality analysis. 
non-financial information by large public interest  The non-financial data collection process is as 
entities, with the aim of ensuring an understanding  follows: the Internal Audit department prepares and 
of the Group’s organisational model, policies, main  sends the Data Owners the data collection forms 
risks and performance indicators in relation to  for the topics in each of their areas of competence; 
environmental, personnel, human rights, social, anti-  the Data Owners in turn request that the operational 
corruption and bribery aspects that are important  representatives complete the forms in accordance 
when taking into account corporate activities and  with the deadlines contained in the business plan; 
characteristics.  once the contents are approved, they are sent to the 
This document (NFI) was approved by the Reply  Internal Audit department, which collects, analyses 
S.p.A. Board on 13/03/2020. and consolidates them.
This document has been subject to limited assurance  The Internal Audit department then prepares the 
by PricewaterhouseCoopers S.p.A. in accordance  draft of the Disclosure of Non-Financial Information 
with the International Standard on Assurance  and sends it to the Data Owners for their final 
Engagement (ISAE 3000 Revised). validation, each for their own area of competence. 
The validated draft is then submitted first of all 
THE REPORTING PROCESS to the CFO for their approval and then the Board 
The contents of this Consolidated Disclosure of  of Directors of Reply S.p.A., which approves its 
Non-Financial Information result from a drafting,  definitive version.
validation and approval process in compliance with  This Disclosure is published together with the 
the “Disclosure of Non-Financial Information Drafting  Annual Report for the Reply Group, in the “Corporate 
Procedure” that the Group adopted in January 2018.  Governance – Consolidated Disclosure of Non-
Specifically, the procedure regulated the  Financial Information” on the www.reply.com website.
responsibility of the various parties in the process: 
the CFO, Internal Audit, Data Owners and  REPLY’S KEY STAKEHOLDERS
Operational Representatives. In pursuing its corporate objectives, the Reply 
The CFO, with the support of Internal Audit and  Group believes it is essential to consider the 
according to the methods outlined in the “Materiality  expectations of its stakeholders, defined as the 
Analysis” paragraph, identifies the relevant financial  subjects that directly and/or indirectly interact 
aspects which are therefore subject to reporting  with the organisation along the entire value chain. 
according to the business, its progress and the  Group stakeholders have been identified taking into 
impact that it has. consideration the influence they can have on the 
36