In particular, the following results can be noted: Leg. Decree 254/2016, it should be noted that they 
•	 the most relevant topics both for stakeholders  are already included in other topics and there are 
and the company are “Skills development” and  no relevant related risks; it should also be noted that 
“Attraction and retention of talent”, in line with  Reply operates in accordance with a Group Code 
the industry in which Reply operates and with the  of Ethics, as described in the “Corporate values 
6
importance that know-how and human capital  and ethical principles” chapter, directed towards  01
2
have for business; the recognition of and respect for the physical and  54/
2
•	 “Business ethics and integrity” and “Data and  moral integrity, personal dignity, private sphere and  ee 
cr
e
Privacy Protection” are two of the most relevant  personal rights of every individual. D
h 
for Reply, above all by virtue of its business and   Reply guarantees and promotes diversity and  wit
e 
c
the importance these issues have for its long-term  gender equality, not tolerating discrimination of  n
a
d
success; any kind based on people’s age, racial and ethnic  or
c
c
a
•	 topics related to “Energy consumption and  origin, nationality, political opinions, religious  n 
n i
climate change” and “Diversity and equal  beliefs, sex, sexuality or state of health or that  atio
m
opportunities”, on the other hand, assume  can be attributed to bullying or conduct that may  or
nf
importance for stakeholders and reflect the  offend personal sensibilities. Reply distributes and  al i
ci
growing impact that these issues assume globally.  requests acceptance of its Code of Ethics from all  n
a
n
fi
Group employees and collaborators (also pursuant  n-
o
n
With respect to the materiality matrix indicated in  to specific contractual clauses). In light of these  of 
e 
the previous edition of the document, note that  safeguards, no significant risks have been detected  ur
s
o
the relevance of the “Health and Safety” topic has  in the area of Human Rights. scl
di
changed from medium to high. Please refer to the Code of Ethics published on  ed 
at
Note also that the topic of water management is  the company website, www.reply.com, for further  olid
s
not in that section, despite being envisaged by Leg.  information. on
C
Decree 254/2016, since the Group has deemed it to 
be of low relevance given its specific characteristics 
and those of its business. Group water consumption 
refers solely to the use of water for hygiene and 
sanitation at the various offices of Group companies 
as well as their use in terms of technology, such 
as air-conditioning and fire protection systems. 
Given the volumes of water used, type of use and 
geographical location of our offices, the impact on 
water resources was deemed negligible.
Regarding  Human Rights, envisaged by Art. 3 of 
40 41