FOREWORD
Directive 2014/95/EU (hereinafter also “Directive”)  NFI 2019 Reading Guide
of the European Parliament and the Council, 
regarding the disclosure of non-financial and  Compliant with the requirements of the Decree, this 
diversity information by certain large undertakings  NFI includes a qualitative and quantitative description 
and groups, entered into force on 6 December 2014.  of non-financial corporate performance with regard 
The Directive demonstrates the commitment of the  to the five areas specified by the Decree, analysed 
EU legislator to contribute to a transition towards a  in three sections in the document, and namely: 
global sustainable economy, which combines long-  “Corporate values and ethical principles” referred 
term profitability, social justice and environmental  to social aspects, respect for human rights and the 
n
protection, promoting the valuing of companies that  fight against corruption; “Research and development  o
ati
m
implement transparent management policies aimed  of talent” referred to working practices and staff  or
nf
at obtaining better performances also in the non-  management; “Focus on environmental themes” in  al i
ci
financial area.  relation to environmental impact. n
a
n
fi
In the Italian legislation, the Directive was enacted as  n-
o
Each chapter includes the following information: n
Legislative Decree No. 254 of 30 December 2016  of 
e 
(hereinafter the “Decree”), which requires large-scale  ur
s
public interest entities to publish a Consolidated  •	 a description of the reasons underlying the  clo
s
Disclosure of Non-Financial Information (NFI),  importance attributed to each non-financial  d di
e
covering (to the extent necessary for comprehension  aspect, whose analysis process is described in  olidat
of corporate activities, performance, results, and  more detail in Methodology;  ons
C
impact it produces) information relating to five  •	 a description of the policies adopted by the 
company in relation to the topic of reference;
fundamental areas, namely: environment, personnel, 
human rights, social, anti-corruption and bribery. The  •	 a description of the management and 
organisation model adopted by the Group for 
Decree, with reference to these areas, requires the 
management of important issues;
description of the main risks, generated and suffered, 
of the policies practised by the company, the related  •	 a description of important performance 
indicators to understand the results achieved by 
performance indicators and the management 
application of the aforementioned policies.
and organisation model (Leg. Decree 254/16 and 
subsequent amendments, Art. 3 c. 1). The Reply 
Furthermore, with reference to the five areas 
Group (hereinafter also the “Group” or “Reply”), as 
covered by the Decree the main risks generated 
a public interest large undertaking, is subject to the 
and/or experienced are reported when deriving 
aforementioned Decree for the 2019 reporting year. 
from corporate activities, products and services, and 
This NFI was prepared to fulfil the requirements 
business relationships, including supply chain (Main 
of the aforementioned Decree regarding the non-
non-financial risks and uncertainties to which Reply 
financial information disclosure. 
S.p.A. and the Group are exposed).
4 5