LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS 
At a time in history of profound and rapid change,  are guaranteed for all. To achieve this goal, over 
conditioned by the ongoing digital revolution and  the years it has activated a series of initiatives and 
global challenges that require our full attention and  projects aimed at maximising the potential and talent 
commitment, companies are playing an increasingly  of Replyers, and creating a network of professionals 
important role in the different and diversified  eager to imagine, experiment and study new 
changes. To guarantee long-term business continuity,  solutions. 
it is now necessary to question the ways in which  Finally, although it is a service company with 
we may interact positively with the system, not  reduced environmental impact, Reply is committed 
only from an economic, but also from a social and  to managing its business ensuring respect for the 
environmental perspective, creating value for all the  environment, considering the importance that this 
company’s stakeholders.  issue has on a global level. In particular, the Group 
In this context, Reply is typically geared towards  has implemented a Greenhouse Gas Emission 
technological innovation and a flexible structure that  Control Programme in accordance with the 
can anticipate market developments and pursue new  provisions of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), 
technological drivers.  an independent global organisation that monitors 
The company’s activities have always been based  the commitment of companies to mitigate climate 
on the ethical principles of legality, honesty,  change.
transparency, impartiality and respect, which are  .
the underpinning of its corporate culture and part 
of the Group’s Code of Ethics, for the benefit of  Daniele Angelucci
shareholders, employees, contractors, suppliers,  CFO Reply S.p.A.
customers, and business partners. The Group 
undertakes to promote and apply these values 
when providing its services to customers, acting 
as a reliable partner and establishing relationships 
based on trust. System security and data protection 
are fundamental requirements for the Group and in 
recent years it has focused its efforts on defining in-
house tools to ensure compliance with the relevant 
regulations in force (e.g. EU European Regulation 
2016/679) and the highest standards of service.
Reply considers the advancement and growth of 
workers (“Replyers”) to be of priority importance, 
as it does the promotion of a collaborative and 
stimulating workplace in which equal opportunities 
6