REPLY
Reply is a group that specialises in technology  respective fields of expertise.
consulting, system integration and digital services  Processes - for Reply, the understanding and use 
with a focus on the conception, design and  of technology involves the introduction of a new 
development of solutions based on the new  enabling factor for business processes, based on 
communication channels and digital media.  an in-depth knowledge of both the market and the 
Composed of a network of companies, Reply  specific industrial contexts of implementation.
partners with key sectors to define business models. 
This is made possible by the new technological and  Applications - Reply designs and implements 
communication fields such as artificial intelligence,  software solutions to satisfy organisations’ core 
n
big data, cloud computing, digital communication and  business requirements. o
ati
m
the Internet of Things.   or
nf
Technologies - Reply optimises the use of innovative  al i
Reply is characterised by: ci
technologies, implementing solutions capable  n
a
n
•	 a culture focused on technological innovation; of ensuring maximum efficiency and operational  n-fi
o
•	 a flexible structure that is able to anticipate  flexibility for its customers. Reply’s services include: of n
e 
market developments and interpret new  ur
s
o
technological drivers; Consulting - with a focus on strategy, communication,  cl
s
di
•	 a delivery method of proven success and  design, processes and technology. ed 
at
scalability; d
oli
s
•	 a network of companies that specialise in specific  System Integration - exploiting the potential of  on
C
areas of expertise; technology by combining business consulting with 
•	 teams composed of specialists, recruited from the  innovative technological solutions and high added 
best universities; value.
•	 a highly experienced management team; 
•	 continuous investment in research and  Digital Services - innovative services based on new 
development; communication channels and digital trends.
•	 long-term relationships with its clients.
THE ORGANISATIONAL MODEL
With over 8,100 employees (as of 31 December 
2019), Reply operates via a network of companies 
that specialise in processes, applications and 
technologies, each centres of excellence in their 
6 7