MARKET FOCUS But customer relationships and a focus on the 
service delivered aren’t the only aspects of telco to 
In every market segment where it operates, Reply  be affected by digital change. The growing presence 
combines specific sector expertise with broad  of connected objects also demands reconfiguration 
experience in the provision of services and a wealth  of the networks to enable huge volumes of data to 
of technological capabilities.  be transported in real time. This data is no longer 
solely generated by smartphones and other mobile 
TELCO & MEDIA  devices, but by a multitude of connected objects. 
Reply is playing an active part in this new era of 
Convergence between the physical and the virtual  “smart connection”, in which the network itself needs 
means that the types of relationships telco and  to adapt and reconfigure to meet users’ constantly 
media companies have with their customers are  changing needs. That’s why it has defined an 
changing drastically. In this increasingly competitive,  integrated strategic and technological consulting 
hybrid context, operators are meeting with new  offering to support development in connection with 
challenges that require innovative, made-to-measure  5G and the design, definition and management 
offerings, new business models and new operating  of the new-generation networks based on SDN 
processes in response. Telco companies can play  technologies, capable of integrating and managing 
a leading role in the digital ecosystem, becoming  virtual networks through network engineering and 
multimedia platforms that can also dialogue with third  network operations services.
parties, thereby addressing consumers more directly 
and offering services more closely connected to their  FINANCIAL SERVICES
needs.
Digital transformation is having a radical effect on 
In this context of profound change, Reply works  financial institutions. Leading market analysts expect 
with the major players in the sector to define and  the financial digital platform market to explode in 
implement digital transformation strategies that  the years to come, both because of the greater 
draw on big data and employ artificial intelligence  number of digital natives among retail customers and 
and machine learning systems to enable the  because of a technological evolution in the direction 
design of services ever more suited and targeted  of highly scalable cloud platforms. 
towards customer requirements.  Thanks to in-
depth knowledge of the sector and its operational  The increasing penetration of solutions based 
dynamics, Reply can not only act to optimise its  on artificial intelligence and robotics is another 
processes but also to automate them, exploiting  powerful factor in transformation, made possible 
specific Robotic Process Automation solutions.  by the explosion in the amount of data available 
(big data), by increasing digitalisation of services 
8