and processes, internal and for dialoguing with the  MANUFACTURING
market and with new models for decision-making.
In 2019, Reply made significant investments to 
Reply works alongside European banks and  develop its solution portfolio in the Industry 4.0 and 
insurance companies as they engage in digital  Logistic 4.0 areas, completely reengineering its 
transformation. Not only does it help them to define  proprietary solutions for Supply Chain Execution and 
multi-channel strategies and implement open  the Manufacturing Execution System. The ability to 
banking and open insurance models, it helps them  interact with the latest generation of sensors (via IoT, 
integrate new architecture and technologies with  cloud computing and big data technologies) installed 
n
pre-existing systems and architecture. It brings  on production lines and products was further  o
ati
m
its know-how in key areas like big data, robotics  boosted, with the aim of creating the backbone of  or
nf
and artificial intelligence to achieve this, with the  the next generation of applications in the logistics  al i
ci
aim of enhancing interaction with customers and  and manufacturing sector.  n
a
n
fi
developing new models for decision-making,  n-
o
n
to analyse risks and optimise internal operating  Reply also works with some of the leading  of 
e 
processes with RPA techniques.  manufacturing groups in production and distribution  ur
s
o
system transformation and development, with a  cl
s
di
Reply also operates in mobile payments and in  specific offering that incorporates technological  d 
e
at
m-commerce services and the related platforms. It  consulting and industrial leadership. Specifically,  olid
s
offers solutions, services and consulting for both  Reply has been working to support supplier and  on
C
the banking and insurance market and for emerging  purchasing management processes, design and 
players in payments.  implementation of control systems and planning 
based on the new generation of cloud ERP solutions, 
Reply also has a strong market presence in the  planning and control of production units and planning 
wealth management arena and has developed  and definition of logistics networks for provisioning. 
specific solutions for emerging consulting models, 
including robo-adviser platforms. In the area of Risk  The automotive sector has undergone a great 
Control, Reply has major European operations, with  change in 2019, above all with respect to connected 
a dedicated Governance, Risk and Control (GRC)  vehicles and mobility platforms. Reply has made a 
consulting division. Reply also develops solutions to  particular effort in these areas, following the ACES 
assist financial institutions in implementing European  (Autonomous, Connected, Electrical and Shared) 
Banking Union regulations. Finally, it is working at the  paradigm to develop expertise and projects 
forefront of innovation on projects around biometric  connected with autonomous driving assistance, 
recognition, digital identity, quantum computing and  now embarking in the direction of level 5, driving 
blockchain, for example. without any human interaction. In connectivity too, 
8 9