101
  In the area of personal data protection, in the course of FY 2018, the Mediobanca Group has 
continued to consolidate the necessary activities, to comply with the provisions of the GDPR. In 
particular, Mediobanca and its Group companies have:
     Consolidated dialogue with the central Group Data Protection unit and Group Data Protection  
    Officer;
     Enhanced the security profiles for IT applications through data masking and encryption;
     Negotiated agreements on personal data protection with new data processors;
     Drawn up internal procedures and guidelines on: (i) personal data management for prospective  
    clients, (ii) management of data privacy requirements in relation to suppliers for the Group and  
    for individual companies, (iii) erasure of data; and (iv) profiling for marketing purposes;
     Continued with implementation of activities to meet data retention requirements;
     Promoted and enhanced privacy by design activities within the Group.
  All Mediobanca Group companies with the exception of those in cluster 3 and Messier & Maris 
Associés, run a course on data privacy for their staff members.
  With reference to personal data protection, during the year under review a total of 520 complaints 
were received by customers of CheBanca!, Compass Banca, Futuro and MBCredit Solutions, and 
a further seven directly from the Italian personal data protection authority pursuant to Article 77 
of GDPR; with regard to the latter, in four out of the seven cases the authority found insufficient 
evidence of personal data breaches to justify action being taken, whereas in the other three, the 
authority’s findings are still pending.
  During FY 2019-20, the Group recorded six personal data breaches. Only one of these breaches was 
sufficiently serious to warrant notification being sent to the Italian authority and the data subjects 
being informed.
  In the issue of Data Security, in recent years the Group has consistently enhanced its strategy in 
order to guarantee the confidentiality, integrity and availability of its information. 
  Against this backdrop, protection in exchanges of and access to data is ensured through the 
adoption of secure communication protocols, and certificates issued by the relevant authorities 
(Global Trust Certification Authority), and where necessary access to data is possible only with strong 
authentication.
  Security checks and IT risk analysis activities are performed on an ongoing basis, to ensure adequate 
organizational and technological controls are in place across the entire Group scope of operations. 
The Group is committed to increasing its ability to identify threats, by means of an ongoing process 
to improve its control system and implement cyber intelligence solutions and services.
  Since GDPR came into force, all Mediobanca Group staff members are assigned a training course 
on the subject, which includes a final assessment test.
  The Group Data Protection unit regularly holds training sessions and briefings with the Compliance 
units of the Italian Group companies on specific topics (e.g. data retention, DPIA, complaints to 
the authority, data breach, balancing of interests, data privacy risk analysis, etc.). The unit has 