114
To this end it promotes numerous initiatives with social impact, including via donations by providing 
solidarity and support, both in Italy itself and the other countries in which it operates.
The Group’s contribution to the community for the year under review has been measured at over €5.4m.
This represents a 69% increase over last year, due primarily to the extraordinary action taken by the Group 
to help in the medical and social emergency situation caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.
The calculation was made using management data in part based on estimates, whereas the type of 
analysis is based on the Guidance issued by the London Benchmarking Group (LBG), the global standard 
in measuring and managing corporate community investment.
In accordance with the LBG model, to measure and represent the Group’s commitment, the contributions 
provided have been split into three categories (charitable gifts, community investment and activities 
related to core business.
8% 2%
Charitable gift
Activities related to core business
Community investments
90%
COVID-19 EMERGENCY
In this year, which will be remembered above all for the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the 
Group has continued to focus its attention on the communities in which it operates and their 
institutions.
During phase 1 of the emergency, a total of €1.1m was donated to the region of Lombardy, 
the Milan municipality fund for mutual assistance, and the Luigi Sacco Hospital also in Milan, 
collected tank to the combined efforts of the Bank itself and its staff, who participated in an 
internal fund-raising campaign.
This first initiative was soon followed by others: CheBanca! donated the equivalent of 1x1,000 
for new funds deposited in tied deposit accounts in the month of April to help in the Coronavirus 
emergency. The first €300,000 was donated to the “Hope” non-profit association to buy 
ventilators, portable ultrasound machines, and PPE, while a further €360,000 are in the process 
of being allocated.
During June, a further €950,000 was donated to three solidarity initiatives selected by the 
Group CSR Committee: the “Sempre con Voi” fund to support the families of doctors and 
healthcare workers who lost their lives fighting Covid-19; the mutual assistance fund of the city 
of Bergamo, and non-profit organization “Mission Bambini” which provides IT equipment to 