115
children in need. These donations also reflect the decision on the part of management, directors 
and statutory auditors to forego or reduce their salaries38. 
Outside  of  Italy,  Compagnie  Monégasque  de  Banque  has  played  an  important  role  in 
implementing a system to raise funds for the Princess Grace Hospital Centre (CHPG), allowing 
all Monaco-based citizens to participate in this charitable campaign. In the space of one month 
more than €470,000 was raised, €100,000 of which by CMB itself, allowing the hospital to 
acquire biological material to perform testing and swab testing, medical equipment and PPE.
In its selection of projects for development, the Group has also identified certain selection criteria and in 
particular three areas in which to concentrate its involvement: environment and territory; culture, research 
and innovation; and social inclusion.
7.2.1  Environment an territory
The Mediobanca Group is aware of the rapid changes affecting the climate and environment as a whole. 
In a scenario of where environmental impact management is becoming increasingly crucial, the Group 
acknowledges the importance of protecting the environment as the primary resource of well-being for 
both current and future generations. For this reason the Group is committed to managing its resources 
responsibly to reduce its own carbon footprint and the impact generated on the environment as a result 
of its businesses.
The Mediobanca Innovation Services (MIS) offices are fitted with various “green” technologies, including 
its heating and ventilation systems; the original system used to insulate the building’s exterior has enabled 
substantial reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, driving a major reduction in the Group’s consumption 
and emission levels.
Other initiatives in this area include:
 Fondo Ambiente Italiano: is one of the “FAI 200”, a group of generous patrons who, with their 
companies, support the FAI (Fondo Ambiente Italiano) in its mission to protect, care for and valorize the 
historical, artistic and environmental heritage of Italy.
 Urban reforestation: this project, implemented by Che Banca! and Compass, in collaboration with the 
Rete Clima association, is intended to offset the environmental impact caused by publication of the 
109C and Incontro branch magazines respectively. The trees planted by staff members will neutralize 
the entire amount of CO emissions generated by the two publications over their whole life cycle.
2
Outside Italy  Compagnie Monégasque de Banque, which committed to defending the environment, 
has for many supported the Oceanographic Museum of Monte Carlo, the mission of which is to increase 
attention to the seas and the oceans and contribute to preserving them.
38. Chairman Renato Pagliaro, Chief Executive Officer Alberto Nagel and Group General Manager Francesco Saverio Vinci all waived the emoluments due to them  
  in respect of their positions as Board members, and committed to donating 30 percent of their fixed salaries for May-December 2020 to initiatives linked to the  
  emergency. The statutory auditors of Mediobanca have also elected to support the initiatives, waiving 20% of their annual emoluments.