119
In 2020, Mediobanca has confirmed its support for VIDAS, a charity which provides complete healthcare 
and assistance free of charge to patients suffering with terminal cancer, both at home and in the Casa 
Vidas hospice in Milan. Mediobanca has decided to focus its support on funding the construction of the 
Casa Sollievo Bimbi which provides care and relief for children and young people at advanced stages of 
incurable cancer and their families.
Furthermore, through the gift-matching, Mediobanca annually supports a variety of solidarity initiatives, 
in some of which staff members themselves have taken part as proof of our commitment.
In the United Kingdom, Mediobanca UK has launched a partnership with Future Frontiers, a charitably 
institution offering young people from disadvantaged backgrounds an opportunity to receive tailored 
career coaching meetings to help them get into the work place; the partnership involves ten employees 
participating directly as company volunteers. Following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic the 
meetings have been held online.
In Montecarlo, Compagnie Monégasque de Banque, including with the involvement of its own staff, took 
part in the No Finish Line marathon for charity to support the Children & Future association which helps 
to protect children and ensure that their rights are respected. CMB also supports the Be Safe charity which 
combats drunk driving.
In Switzerland, RAM Active Investments, through the RAM Active Philanthropy Foundation, supports 
numerous social projects, including the following:
 Children of the Dawn: an organization based in South Africa which supports initiatives for children  
  who are orphans as a result of their parents dying from AIDS.
 1001Fontaines: an association which seeks to improve the health of the rural populations in India, 
Cambodia and Madagascar by offering them sustainable and independent access to safe drinking 
water.
 Terres des Hommes Valais: a Swiss organization which, as part of a specialized care programme, 
welcomes children with diseases and malformations who require specialized operations, using 
advanced technologies not available in their country of origin.