122
8. Environment
8.1 Relevant policies and risks
  [GRI 102-11], [GRI 102-15], [GRI 103-1], [GRI 103-2], [GRI 103-3]
The Mediobanca Group is sensitive to the need to protect the environment, and climate change, as the 
primary resource of human well-being, and its decisions are geared towards ensuring compatibility 
between economic initiative and environmental requirements in accordance with the regulations and 
codes of conduct in force.
The Group, as stated in the Group Sustainability Policy, is aware of the impact deriving from the company’s 
activities, and of the role which it can play in the promotion of responsible behaviour. Accordingly, it intends to 
manage the risks and rise to the challenges deriving from climate change which could materially impact on 
the development of its business and its ability to generate value over the long term. To this end, acknowledging 
its impact on the environment, direct and indirect, it identifies and assesses the associated risks, and seeks 
to promote sustainable business through its own initiatives intended to limit impact related to its business.  
To improve its environmental performance, the Group has identified the following areas with specific 
targets integrated into the 2019-23 Strategic Plan:
 Reduction of direct impact on the environment: energy savings, increase in energy from renewable 
sources, cutting CO2 emissions and promoting sustainable mobility through increasing the percentage 
of hybrid cars as part of the company fleet.
 Supporting the energy transition: increase in green mortgages and issue of new environmental 
products.
 Reduction of indirect impact on the environment: environmental, social and governance criteria 
integrated into the screening process for new investments/loans and purchasing and supplier selection 
processes based also on ESG criteria.
With reference to assets covered by leasing contracts which return to the company’s ownership (e.g. 
because they have not been redeemed or have been collected following contract terminations), all 
necessary measures are taken to mitigate any environmental risks. The services of leading companies 
specializing in decontamination and waste disposal are used to perform such activities.