15
People are an essential resource and strategic priority for the Group’s competitiveness. As such Mediobanca 
is committed to staff training and development, and to promoting equal opportunities and human rights in 
every area of its activities.
“Mediobanca is a bank to be proud of”, was one of the key themes to emerge from the most recent staff 
engagement exercise, which emphasized among other things the quality of the Group’s management as one 
of its main strengths.
The Group promotes diversity as a fundamental value of personal growth and of cultural and professional 
enrichment.
For the second year running Mediobanca has been included in the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI) 
which tracks the performances of listed companies committed to gender equality based on development, 
representation and transparency policies.
 
“
Mediobanca has always sought to promote a corporate culture based on diversity, 
which we see as a key factor to add value, and which expresses itself in all areas of our 
business” says Alberto Nagel, Mediobanca Group CEO. “We chose to strengthen 
this commitment further in our 2019-23 Strategic Plan, making explicit our focus on 
equal opportunities in the area of gender: and we intend to strengthen the career 
development possibilities for the talented women employed by M. ediobanca still further 
through the adoption of gender equality remuneration policies”.
”
The Group’s focus on inclusion is also reflected in the support expressed for the communities and regions in 
which it operates. Further confirmation of Mediobanca’s social commitment was provided with the initiatives 
implemented to tackle the health and social crisis caused by Covid-19, with donations totalling approx. 
€2.6m, with staff, Directors and Statutory Auditors all contributing.
Protecting the environment and preventing climate change are the Group’s other main priorities, based 
on an awareness of the impact of its activities and of the role it is able to play in promoting responsible 
behaviour.
The convictions and commitment described above are illustrated in more detail in the rest of this document, 
our Group’s third Consolidated Non-Financial Statement.