28
 Compliance  e  Group  Anti  Money  Laundering  (AML):  this  unit  presides  over  the  regulatory 
and  reputational  risks  facing  the  Group,  and  has  specific  responsibility  for  reviewing 
the  internal  procedures  to  check  they  are  consistent  with  the  objective  of  preventing 
the  laws  and  regulations  applicable  to  the  Bank  and  the  Group  from  being  breached. 
For Mediobanca S.p.A., the unit proposes the adoption of procedures to ensure the risk of non-
compliance  is  managed  (and  checks  that  they  have  been  implemented),  provides  updates 
on  changes  to  the  domestic  Italian  and  European  regulatory  framework,  and  prepares 
adequate  reporting  flows  to  the  corporate  bodies  and  the  units  involved.  For  the  Group  it 
handles relations with the supervisory authorities for the matters falling within its own remit. 
The unit presides over the risks of non-compliance facing the Group, calling on the assistance 
of the management and officers of the various Group companies who in this connection report 
functionally to the head of the Compliance unit and ensure adequate regular and occasional 
reporting flows to him, in accordance with the provisions of the Compliance unit’s own regulations. 
Within the Compliance unit itself, a Group AML unit has been established with the objective of 
preventing and tackling breaches of the regulations on money laundering and terrorist financing6.  
The head of the Group Compliance unit, who reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer, takes part 
in Risks Committee meetings, providing support to the Committee in its controls activity.
 Group Risk Management: the Group Risk Management unit is responsible for the entire model for 
risk management and for applying it within the Group, defining the appropriate methodologies 
and processes for identifying, measuring and monitoring risks, current and future. The unit ensures 
ongoing control of the Group’s overall exposure and the exposure of each individual unit to credit risk, 
financial risks, liquidity risk, operational risk and the other relevant risks (e.g. IT risks), up to the limits 
established by the internal and supervisory regulations, with the assistance inter alia of the Group 
companies’ Risk Management functions which to this end report functionally to the Group Chief Risk 
Officer. The Group Chief Risk Officer is responsible for the risk management process, developing risk 
management policies which include definition and quantification of risk appetite, and policies and 
risk limits at the individual business unit and Group level. The Chief Risk Officer, who reports to the 
CEO, takes part in Board of Directors, Executive Committee and Risks Committee meetings, providing 
support to the Committee in its own control activities.
 Heads of business areas: the heads of the business areas, also known as risk owners, are responsible 
for ensuring that risk management activities are identified, assessed, managed and monitored 
properly with respect to their own operations, and for implementing the appropriate first-level control 
measures.
The individual risks identified by the Group, in addition to those typical of the financial sector such credit 
risk, market risk, liquidity risk and operational risk (including IT risks and cyber risks) also include non-
financial risks.
The management and ongoing monitoring of such risks is a necessary prerequisite to generate and protect 
value in a way that is sustainable over time with consequences for issues considered to be priorities for the 
Group, such as maintaining a high service and customer satisfaction levels, transparency of information 
on products and services, innovation, multi-channel approach, digitalization and data security, in order to 
guarantee ethics, business integrity and brand protection.
6. The Italian Group companies have outsourced their AML activities to the Mediobanca S.p.A. AML unit, whereas the non-Italian Group companies have identified an  
  AML officer reporting in functional terms to the head of Group AML