31
At a Board meeting held on 14 June 2017, the Directors of Mediobanca mandated the Chief Executive Officer 
to take charge of activities regarding sustainability and the actions to be implemented and monitored, 
including the institution of a management Sustainability Committee, including representatives of both 
business and staff units.
On 19 September 2019, the Board of Directors set up its own Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
Committee, with powers for matters pertaining to corporate social responsibility, in particular processing 
proposals to be submitted to the attention of the Board itself, for instance: Group CSR policies; short- and 
medium-term sustainability objectives; monitoring initiatives promoted by the management committee 
to implement the policies; consolidated non-financial statement; assessment of degree of achievement of 
CSR objectives set by the Remuneration Policy or scorecards.
The committee consists of the Chief Executive Officer (who chairs it) and Directors Angela Gamba, Maximo 
Ibarra and Elisabetta Magistretti. The Group General Manager, Committee Secretary, and Head of CSR 
also take part in the meetings, along with other Group representatives invited by the Committee Chairman 
based on the items included on the agenda.
Management of these activities is one of the factors taken into consideration in evaluating the Chief 
Executive Officer’s performance.
The Board of Directors is responsible for approving the CNFS, subject to prior review by the Board’s own 
CSR Committee. The Statutory Audit Committee performs monitoring to ensure that the provisions of 
the regulations on non-financial reporting are complied with, and reports on it in the annual report to 
shareholders on the occasion of the annual general meeting.
The Group Sustainability unit reports to the Chief Executive Officer, assisting him in all issues relating to 
social responsibility and ensuring the Group is positioned correctly on these issues in its various areas of 
operation.
In March 2020, the Mediobanca Group updated its Group Sustainability Policy first adopted in 2017, 
sub-divided into four areas held to be priorities: measures to tackle bribery and corruption, human 
rights, diversity and inclusion, and climate change and the environment. The Policy contributes to the 
strengthening and implementation of the values of ethics, integrity and responsibility as a form of respect 
towards people, the environment and society as a whole. The Group Sustainability Policy is based on the 
primary declarations and regulations issued with respect to the above areas, with the commitment to 
constantly improve the Group’s conduct to ensure that sustainability is an integral part of the strategy and 
operation of its business. The Policy applies to the Group as a whole, in all countries in which it operates 
and in accordance with: the Code of Ethics, the Code of Conduct, the organizational model instituted 
pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 231/01, and all other policies, guidelines, procedures, directives and 
provisions related to the areas covered by the Policy, defined at Group and local level.
To embed and promote a corporate culture based on ethics, integrity and sustainable business, the 
Group has adopted a Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct which set out the main principles on which the 
protection of its reputation rests, and contains the values underpinning the Group’s day-to-day operations, 
as described in more detail in section 4.1 Policies and initiatives to prevent and tackle corruption.
In 2020, Mediobanca was also ranked in the top ten of the Integrated Governance Index8 – an index which 
assesses the degree to which sustainability is integrated into a company’s strategies – for the first time.
8. The Integrated Governance Index (IGI), now in its fifth year, is a quantitative index constructed on the basis of a questionnaire addressed to companies. The  
  benchmark panel for the survey includes the 100 top listed companies, the companies which publish non-financial statements in accordance with Italian Legislative  
  Decree 254/16, and the top 50 unlisted and industrial companies in the Mediobanca rankings.