33
3.6 Material issues and areas covered by Italian Legislative Decree 254/16
  [GRI 102-43], [GRI 102-44], [GRI 102-46], [GRI 102-47]
“Material issues” are defined as aspects which reflect significant economic, environmental and social 
impacts by the organization or which could substantially influence stakeholder assessments and decisions. 
These aspects are also important with regard to risk management and strategy, and form the basis for 
the non-financial reporting.
The Mediobanca Group carried out its first materiality analysis in 2017, with the aim of identifying the 
most relevant issues for the Group itself and its stakeholders, i.e. issues which impact significantly on the 
ability to create value in the short, medium and long term.
The process of analysing these issues led to the materiality matrix being developed, and has subsequently 
been updated:
 In 2017 the heads of 15 different Group units and companies identified more than 50 material issues 
as having the potential to impact on the financial sector;
 In 2018, the first multi-stakeholder forum was held with the objective of updating the Materiality 
Matrix. The meeting with internal and external stakeholders, identified with the support of the 
relevant company units, involved shareholders and investors, clients, staff, entities and institutions 
and representatives of the third sector;
 In 2019, with the objective of updating the Materiality Matrix from the internal stakeholders’ 
perspective, the heads of the 18 Group units responded to a questionnaire on sustainability issues. 
The material issues were then revised internally to reflect their relevance to the Group, and the results 
were integrated with those collected from the external stakeholders in 2018;
 In May 2020 a group of stakeholders was asked to vote on the material issues, with the objective of 
incorporating their vision into the materiality definition process, and so updating the matrix from 
an external perspective. The stakeholders involved, including shareholders and investors, clients, 
entities and institutions, third sector organizations, staff and suppliers, were sent a letter describing 
the sustainability path undertaken, and presenting the themes already included in the matrix, asking 
them to vote, using an online tool, on the materiality of each theme based on their own experiences, 
knowledge and expectations of the Group;
These activities enabled the Materiality Matrix to be updated, with 14 of the 23 issues proving to be more 
material for the Group. In particular, the issues which reporting a significant increase in materiality were 
as follows: Staff health, safety and welfare, Management of direct and indirect environmental impact of the business, 
and Diversity, inclusion and equal opportunities. Those which reduced in materiality were: Staff incentives, 
benefits and remuneration, Contribution to economic system and society, and Job creation and protection.