36
The Group is a signatory to the Valore D manifesto, a programmatic and 
strategic statement of intent to deliver increased diversity and gender 
inclusion within the company organization (section 5.3 Diversity, inclusion 
and equal opportunities). In the Strategic Plan, the Group has committed to 
valorizing female candidates for new positions and internal promotions (cf. 
section 9. Objectives and future commitments).
The  Group’s  continuing  growth  helps  create  jobs  and  employment 
opportunities for young people (see section 5.2. Mediobanca Group staff: job 
creation and protection). In the Strategic Plan the Group has committed to 
promote responsible investing and to contribute to Italian economic growth 
by investing in outstanding Italian SMEs (see section 9. Objectives and future 
commitments).
The Group promotes numerous initiatives with social impact, including 
through donations and providing support of different kinds, in Italy and the 
other countries where it operates. In its Strategic Plan, the Group has set 
itself the target of making a consistent annual contribution for projects with 
positive social and environmental impact, and of increasing the amount of 
AUM by the Mediobanca Social Impact fund, which donates two-thirds of 
its management fees to charitable institutions (cf. section 9. Objectives and 
future commitments).
The Group is committed to improving its relations with clients constantly and 
to monitoring its supply chain responsibly. In the Strategic Plan, the Group 
set itself the target of improving customer satisfaction and increasing the 
percentage of suppliers screened using ESG criteria (cf. section 9. Objectives 
and future commitments).
Objectives have been included in the Strategic Plan in the area of extending 
the sourcing of electricity from certified renewable sources, reducing CO
2 
emissions, and increasing the number of hybrid vehicles in the company 
fleet. In terms of indirect impact, the targets included in the Plan include 
the issue of a green bond and a carbon neutral fund (RAM), plus an increase 
in green mortgages issued by CheBanca! (cf. section 9. Objectives and future 
commitments).