40
4. Ethics and 
integrity in business 
and anti-corruption 
4.1 Policies and initiatives to prevent and tackle corruption
  [GRI 102-16], [GRI 103-1], [GRI 103-2], [GRI 103-3], [GRI 205-2]
As stated inter alia in the Sustainability Policy, the Mediobanca Group is committed to conducting its 
business in accordance with the highest ethical standards, and does not tolerate any form of corruption, 
whether active or passive.
The Group acquires and maintains commercial relations solely on the basis of its own offering of 
services and the specific needs of its clients. It does not engage in any form of conduct which is or 
could appear to be intended to obtain and/or offer improper advantages. The approach it adopts is also 
intended to prevent instances of corruption occurring in the structuring and execution of transactions 
or commercial agreements.
To ensure corruption is tackled effectively and guarantee compliance with all applicable laws and 
regulations, the Group has prepared its own internal regulations, procedures and controls, arranges 
regular training, and carries out checks and audit activities.
All the companies included in the scope of the Statement have adopted anti-corruption policies and 
procedures. In particular, the Italian companies have adopted their own organizational, management 
control models pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 231/01; the London branch office and the 
companies incorporated under English law have adopted their own anti-bribery and corruption 
regulations to incorporate the provisions of the UK Bribery Act.
Mediobanca, in its pursuit of a zero-tolerance approach to corruption, has adopted internal regulations 
to tackle such phenomena. The regulations are listed below and are available on the company intranet.
 Organizational Model pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 231/01
  The purpose of the Model is to contribute towards preventing crimes from being committed which 
could entail administrative liability for the Bank, including crimes of bribery and corruption (inter alia 
between private individuals). The Model, which is approved by the Board of Directors, was updated in 
July 2018.
 Code of Ethics
  The Board of Directors of Mediobanca S.p.A has approved a Code of Ethics, which forms an integral part 
of the Model instituted pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 231/01, and sets down the set of values 
which direct the Group’s conduct. The Code is a fundamental instrument in defining a good system of 