42
    Contribute to spreading an ethical corporate culture, and act as positive role models for their  
  colleagues;
    Promptly report any violations and co-operating actively with any further enquiries.
  The heads of the organizational units must ensure that the recipients under their supervision maintain 
the highest ethical and professional standards. If they fail to exercise their powers of supervision 
appropriately, If they do not carry out their powers of supervision with due care, they may be held 
jointly responsible for the breaches committed by their own staff.
  In the event of breaches of the Code of Conduct and the internal regulations, action may be taken 
involving the offender’s variable remuneration, and disciplinary measures based on the seriousness, 
extent and external relevance of the infringement.
  The Group companies adopt their own Code of Conduct, consistent with the key values and principles 
expressed at parent company level, while tailoring them to reflect the main characteristics of their own 
operations.
 Non-compliance risk management policy
  The policy, updated in February 2020, describes the model used for managing the risk of non-
compliance with the regulations in force.
 Whistle-blowing policy
  The Whistle-blowing Policy sets out the principles, means and measures adopted to allow staff 
members to report any malfunctioning within the organizational structure or internal controls system, 
or any other irregularity in the Bank’s operations or breach of the regulations governing banking 
activity. The policy is approved by the Board of Directors and was revised in July 2018.
 Group anti-corruption directive
  This Group directive, which was issued in November 2019, supplements the regulations already 
adopted to tackle bribery and corruption, setting down the standards for identifying and preventing 
instances of corruption, with the aim of protecting the Group’s integrity and reputation.
 Gift directive
  The Group Gift Directive, updated in November 2019, sets out the rules of conduct to be followed 
regarding the possibility of receiving and offering gifts from and to third parties, to avoid behaviour 
that could give the appearance of being intended to exert improper influence on the conduct of 
recipients.
 Directive on relations with the public administration
  The Directive, updated in October 2019, lays down the rules of conduct for relations with the public 
administration, in order to mitigate the risks of the Bank being involved in instances of crime (for 
example, fraud or bribery and corruption), and to ensure transparency of relations.
 Introducers directive (previously Agents directive)
  The Directive, which represents a development of what was formerly known as the Agents Directive, 
updated in November 2018, defines the procedure for appointing agents, i.e. persons who procure 
potential clients or business opportunities for Mediobanca, introducing criteria and controls to take 
into account the risks of bribery and corruption.