43
All the companies included in the scope of the Statement have adopted their own internal anti-corruption 
regulations, incorporating the principles and standards laid out in the documents listed above, and 
adapting them according to their specific areas of operations.
Mediobanca and the Group companies put on e-learning courses addressing the issue of bribery and 
corruption (Italian Legislative Decree 231/01 for Italian staff) for employees and management. Initiatives 
are run when staff are first recruited and/or at regular intervals, generally over a time horizon of several 
years when changes are made to the regulations or the organizational structure. The Compliance and 
Group HR units may agree further initiatives to extend awareness of this issue.
In particular, in January 2020, in conjunction with the release of the Group anti-corruption directive, a 
video message was published on the intranet by the Head of Compliance at Mediobanca S.p.A., to raise 
awareness among staff members on this issue and inform them of the principles on which the internal 
regulations are based.
Commercial partners and important suppliers are bound by contract to comply with the provisions of the 
Group’s Code of Ethics and related regulations.
During the reporting period, a total of 4,725 hours’ training on anti-corruption issues was provided within 
the Group, both as refresher courses for staff who have already received training and/or basic training 
courses for new recruits, with a total of 4,228 staff participating, or 86% of the company’s population. The 
anti-corruption policies and procedures have been sent to all the Directors and the Group’s workforce with 
the exception of certain long-term absentees12. 
Mediobanca and the Group companies take part in meetings and initiatives of the respective category 
associations, including those on the fight against corruption.
Mediobanca has also adopted the following policies:
 Policy for managing conflicts of interest,  
  in order to identify and prevent or manage situations in which the Bank could, in the performance 
of its business, damage the interests of a customer by acting in its own interests or the interests of 
another customer. Employees’ personal conflicts are also detected; hence staff members are required 
to report any such situations in a timely manner, to allow specific measures to be adopted if necessary;
 Directive on external personal interests,
  which requires staff members to obtain authorization from senior management before acquiring 
personal financial interests or accepting positions in companies external to the Group.
The companies included in the scope of the Statement, which provide banking and investment services 
have adopted internal regulations on conflicts of interest, which include measures to manage personal 
conflicts.
12. Messier Maris & Associés postponed the training scheduled for its staff members in France because of Covid-19. The course will be held in the last six months of  
  2020