50
5. People and 
Human Rights
5.1 Relevant policies and risks
  [GRI 102-15] , [GRI 103-1], [GRI 103-2], [GRI 103-3]
In a competitive scenario where the business and consumption models are undergoing constant and 
indepth transformation, the Mediobanca Group is aware that change, a fundamental prerequisite 
for tackling the challenges posed by the market, has to involve leveraging its staff, developing their 
professional abilities, and an adequate talent retention scheme.
Our  staff  members  are  our  human  capital  and  the  indispensable  foundation  of  the  Group’s 
competitiveness. The trust which underpins every employment relationship is regulated by a body of 
internal policies and procedures, as formalized and approved by the governing bodies or internal offices 
responsible.
The Group has adopted a Human Resource Management Policy, updated in July 2020, to ensure that their 
staff members have the requisite competences and professional qualifications in order to exercise the 
duties assigned to them. The Policy also describes the roles and responsibilities of all bodies involved 
in the staff management process: the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer, General Manager and 
Human Resources, in line with the other policies and codes impacting on staff management.
The Human Resource Management Policy is based on a series of non-negotiable general principles:
 Human Rights: the Group believes that respect for human rights is a fundamental prerequisite to its 
own sustainability and that respect for each collaborator’s personality and dignity is fundamental.
 Ethics and integrity: the Group promotes an ethical culture which is based on values of proper 
conduct, professionalism, customer protection and responsibility and ensures that its staff members 
adopt conduct which is strongly ethical in nature and marked by its integrity.
 Dignity and civil liberties: the Group undertakes to prevent every form of unsolicited behaviour, 
expressed in physical, spoken or unspoken form and rejects any type of harassment.
 Meritocracy: the Group valorizes its staff on a meritocratic basis, seeking to develop their professional 
capabilities including through adequate training.
 Diligence: the trust which underpins every working relationship is based on the duty of diligence and 
on respect, both in form and in substance, of all internal regulations.
 Equality and inclusion: the Mediobanca Group considers diversity of gender and thought as an 