6
1. Methodology
1.1 Reporting standards applied
  [GRI 102-52], [GRI 102-54]
The Consolidated Non-Financial Statement (the “Statement” or the “CNFS”) for the Mediobanca Group 
(the “Group”), drawn up in accordance with the provisions of Article 4 of Italian Legislative Decree 254/16 
(the “Decree”), contains information on environmental, social and staff-related issues and on human 
rights and measures to tackle bribery and corruption, of use to provide an understanding of the activities 
performed by the Group, its performance, results and the impact produced by it.
The Statement, which is published annually starting from FY 2017-18, has been drawn up in accordance 
with the provisions of Italian Legislative Decree 254/16 and in accordance with the core option of the 
Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards (the “GRI Standards”) published in 2016 
by the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI), which are currently the most widely used and internationally-
recognized standards in non-financial reporting.
To facilitate stakeholders in locating information within the document, the GRI Content Index is reproduced 
on p. 142 References to the GRI indicators are provided in the text in order to facilitate understanding, 
using the symbol [GRI N.].
The non-financial reporting contained in the Statement reflects the principle of materiality, or relevance, 
one of the prerequisites set down by the regulations and a key feature of the GRI Standards. Accordingly, 
the issues presented in the Statement are the ones which, following the materiality analysis described on 
p. 33, are considered relevant in terms of being able to reflect the social and environmental impact of the 
Group’s activities or influence the decisions of its stakeholders.
The reporting refers to  the following principles:
  Inclusiveness:  the expectations and interests of all stakeholders, i.e. parties which on various grounds 
contribute to or are otherwise affected by the Group’s activities, are taken into consideration.
  Sustainability context: the results of the non-financial reporting takes into account the social and 
economic context in which the Group operates and the main issues in the sector of which it forms part.
  Completeness: the issues reported on, and the scope of the Statement, enable stakeholders to make 
a full judgement of the Group’s principal social and environmental impacts.
 Balance between positive and negative aspects: the Statement presents both aspects in which the 
Group shows positive results and trends, and areas which reflect margins for further improvement.
 Comparability: the indicators have been used in such a way as to allow results to be constructed and 
reconstructed over time, thus allowing performance to be monitored on an ongoing basis.