51
advantage to be leveraged, guarantees that all its collaborators are treated without distinction/
exclusion and is committed to guaranteeing a correct balance between genders is maintained at all 
levels of the company.
 Health and safety: the Mediobanca Group guarantees high standards of protection of health and 
safety in the workplace.
 Confidentiality: each staff member is required to maintain the utmost confidentiality regarding the 
Mediobanca Group’s activities and information regarding its clients.
 Data privacy: all information that regards the Group’s collaborators is processed in accordance with 
the provisions of the law and the applicable confidentiality undertakings.
Group HR has the task of managing, developing and monitoring human capital and its changes within 
the Group, ensuring the quality and adequacy of its professional capital.
It is also responsible for ensuring that the activities of selecting, training, assessing and developing 
human resources are performed correctly, with attention in particular to the administrative activities 
related to employment arrangements. In the exercise of its activities, Group HR has the objective of 
increasing the sense among staff of belonging to the Group and of valorizing talent.
For the Mediobanca Group, professional development is at the basis of our growth and hence also 
that of our staff, which is why we guarantee: adequate training, practical work experience, experience 
in different positions, performance assessment, career progression and promotion, on a meritocratic 
basis and in accordance with the principle of equal opportunities and staff needs, as well as the its own 
strategic decisions and organizational requirements. 
COVID-19 EMERGENCY
From the start of the crisis, the health and safety of workers and collaborators has been the 
priority of the entire Mediobanca Group, which has adapted rapidly to the new ways of working 
imposed by the circumstances.
The Crisis Unit set up to deal with the health emergency has put in place a number of activities 
to protect employees and collaborators:
 New decrees implemented promptly
  As well as monitoring the decrees that have been issued and adapting its operations 
accordingly, the Bank has kept its staff up to date at all times as the emergency situation 
develops by sending out regular newsletters.
 Security measures introduced to branches and offices
  The Bank maintains close contact with the company doctor and the healthcare facilities used 
by the Group, to ensure that all necessary measures are implemented in order to guarantee 
maximum safety at its offices and branches.