59
The total staff turnover (outgoing) was 6%; 4.25% of the exits occurred on a voluntary basis.
The recruitment and departure rates were in line with those recorded the previous year.
Of the positions vacant, 24.3% of those open during the twelve months were filled by internal candidates 
(internal moves).
5.3 Diversity, inclusion and equal opportunities
  [GRI 405-1]
As stated in the Group Sustainability Policy, the Mediobanca Group considers diversity of gender and 
thought to be an advantage to be leveraged, as well as a source of cultural and professional enrichment. 
The Group believes in the importance of valorizing different perspectives and experiences through 
promoting an inclusive culture which does not tolerate any form of discrimination. It seeks to foster 
a working environment in which diversity and personal and cultural perspectives are respected and 
considered to be key factors of success.
Pursuit of the appropriate balance between genders at all levels of the company continues, focusing in 
particular on senior and management positions where the gender gap is most felt. Every announcement 
for selection processes encourages all candidates in possession of the requisite qualifications and/or 
experience to apply. The same principle underpins the assessment process for internal opportunities 
arising within each individual Group company (transfers between organizational units) or within the 
Group (intra-Group transfers).
To meet the objectives set for the Strategic Plan in the area of gender balance, the selection procedures 
require the HR Business Partner, based on actual availability on the market, to guarantee that at the 
CV collection and screening stage, at least 50% of the candidates will be given to the less represented 
gender in the organizational unit where the appointment is to be made where more than one candidate 
have the same professional qualifications and experience.
In the area of gender equality, Mediobanca’s involvement in Valore D should be noted. Valore D is the 
first association of large companies in Italy, set up to support diversity and women of talent in positions 
of corporate leadership. The Valore D Manifesto, of which Mediobanca is a signatory, is a programmatic 
and strategic manifesto for increased gender diversity and inclusion within organizations.
In 2019 the Group also signed up to the Charter for Women Working for Banks promoted by the Italian 
Banking Association (ABI). This initiative aims encourage gender equality in terms of treatment and 
opportunities in the banking sector, recognizing gender diversity as a key resource for the development, 
sustainable growth and value creation of all companies.
On the back of its commitment to equal opportunities, Mediobanca has been included for the second 
year running in the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI), an initiative which selects companies that 
have impressed by their transparency of approach as shown in their reporting on gender issues and 
adopting an increasingly egalitarian approach to the employment of women.