60
Mediobanca was also among the 200 winners in the Italy’s Best Employers for Women 2020 exercise 
conducted by German quality institute ITQF in conjunction with Repubblica Affari&Finanza. The survey 
analysed some 2.5 million online comments made in relation to the working environment for women, 
corporate culture, professional training and equal opportunities.
Still in the area of inclusion, the Group guarantees that all its collaborators are treated without distinction, 
exclusion, restriction or preference, whether direct or indirect, based on their: age, gender, sexual 
orientation, civil status, religion, language, ethnic or national origins, physical or mental disabilities, 
state of pregnancy, maternity or paternity (including as a result of adoption), personal convictions, 
political opinions, and/or trade union affiliation or activities.
The ongoing internationalization process for the Group offers an opportunity to meet and include 
talented people from different nationalities, cultures and religious traditions, each of whom is guaranteed 
a positive working environment marked by respect for the rights of all persons.
The Group undertakes to offer a fair level of compensation reflecting the skills, abilities and professional 
experience of each staff member, thus guaranteeing that the principle of equal opportunities is applied 
in practice.
The Group also places high importance on the contribution of its elder staff members who have been 
working for Mediobanca for a long time. We have an ongoing focus on refreshing skills, managerial 
training, and involvement in more innovative projects. The professionalism of long-serving staff, allied 
to their experience, is a factor which contributes to the growth and enrichment of those who have 
only recently entered the workplace, and who have an opportunity to work closely alongside them. 
The Group also seeks to manage the employment of differently-abled people in accordance with the 
regulations in force, by encouraging the different areas of the company to employ staff with different 
abilities, whose inclusion is ensured by the Group’s ongoing focus on providing working instruments 
and environments that are suitable for their needs, and on guaranteeing participation in training and 
social initiatives with the necessary support. As at 30 June 2020, a total of 277 differently-abled people 
were employed by the Group.
To manage diversity and inclusion issues, a Group Diversity & Inclusion Manager has been appointed 
within HR, with responsibilities for monitoring and promoting diversity among staff members within 
the Group.
In the area of work-life balance, CheBanca!, Compass and Futuro have all signed agreements with trade 
unions to promote various solutions to enable staff to reconcile their personal and professional lives:
 Working part-time: higher percentages of staff are being allowed to work part-time than was the case 
in the past, with priority being given to those with complex family and difficult personal situations. 
Working part-time in no way constitutes grounds for discrimination in working relationships and/or 
professional development.
 Working from home: an experimental phase has been launched for flexible forms of working from 
home among certain organizational units of the three companies concerned.