62
The Group guarantees respect for diversity and non-discrimination at every stage of each collaborator’s 
working experience; it also safeguards the right and freedom of association and collective bargaining18;  
it guarantees high standards of protection of health and safety in the workplace, seeking to raise 
awareness of risks and promoting responsible behaviour, including via information and training 
activities. Protection of workers’ health and wellness is achieved by adopting specific programmes of 
prevention and protection, thereby ensuring that all levels of the company take responsibility for this 
area.
The Group rejects forced labour and child labour and any time of harassment, whether physical, verbal, 
sexual or psychological, abuse, threatening or intimidatory behaviour in the workplace, guaranteeing 
working conditions which are respectful and favourable in the countries in which it operates.
With reference to indirect impact, as stated in the Group Sustainability Policy, the Group identifies and 
assesses the risks related to the protection of internationally recognized human rights, and avoids 
engaging in relations with parties implicated in unlawful activities which could lead to potential breaches 
of abuses of Human Rights.
Coverage in this area has been strengthened by the adoption of the Group Policy on Responsible Lending 
and Investing, which bans business proposals from being accepted that involve parties which have been 
convicted of serious crimes (which includes breach of human rights), and by the training course on 
Sustainability and Human Rights with the aim of raising awareness among staff of the risk of breach of 
human rights as a result of the Group’s indirect impact.
TRAINING COURSE ON SUSTAINABILITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS
In June 2019 a training course was launched on Sustainability and Human Rights, initially 
for staff of Mediobanca in Italy and elsewhere and later extended to the other Italian Group 
companies as well.
The objective of the course, which is compulsory for all staff, is to raise awareness on these issues 
by illustrating the pathway towards sustainability undertaken by the Group, and explaining the 
concept of sustainability and its implications for the financial sector. Following a brief introduction 
of certain general concepts linked to sustainability, the course deals with the issue of responsible 
investing, with particular attention to the question of human rights. Governments, clients and 
investors today are asking the banking system to take its responsibilities in its financing choices, 
as a result of which banks have an indirect impact that could have implications in terms of the 
risk of breaching Human Rights. 
During  the  course  of  the  year  one  reporting  was  received,  following  which  disciplinary 
measures  were  taken  against  the  person  concerned  for  offensive  and  undesirable  behaviour.  
18. The national collective employment contract for the sector covers all staff in Italy, and stipulates the minimum period for dialogue with trade union organizations  
  to implement significant organizational changes