65
HOURS OF TRAINING BY TYPE, FY 2019-20
2.75% 4.65% 4.5% Management
1.23%
0.5% Specialist
0.8%
Languages
10.81%
Induction
Human Rights
2.61%
Welfare
72.14% Health & safety
Anti-corruption (It. Leg. Decr. 231/01)
 
Compilance & regulation  
In addition, the 412 CheBanca! FAs received training as stipulated by the regulations for a total of 
22,230 hours, plus a further 316 hours’ optional training, including on cyber security.
Compass and Futuro too have provided training and refresher courses on the obligations deriving from 
sector regulations, offering mandatory training courses for their own FAs with coverage of 100%.
5.6 Managing, attracting, developing and retaining talent
  [GRI 404-3]
The Mediobanca Group devotes considerable attention to the issue talent management and retention 
which is considered to be a strategic factor for its own development.
In accordance with this approach, the Policies for the selection, appointment, succession and performance 
assessment of company representatives and Group Key Function Holders govern the succession of Directors, 
both executive (including the Chief Executive Officer and General Manager) and non-executive, Statutory 
Auditors and Key Function Holders, and contain an emergency plan for replacing company management 
if the need to do so suddenly arises. 
Regarding succession planning for the executive Directors, the Chief Executive Officer and General 
Manager, the Appointments Committee is tasked with selecting a limited number of persons who have 
been members of the Group’s management for at least three years and who are considered able to 
succeed to those positions. The selection is made with the support of the Chief Executive Officer and 
General Manager in office, Group HR, and specialized consultants if considered appropriate. 
This select number of management is kept informed at all times, so that, if need be, the Appointments 
Committee can make swift proposals to the Board of Directors or to shareholders in general meetings. 
With regard to the Key Function Holders, i.e. non-Board members with significant influence over the 