66
Bank’s management, a total of fourteen key functions (covered by fourteen staff members) have been 
identified, for which the skills required by such roles have been defined and formalized. The functions 
thus identified are the heads of the control units (Group Audit, Group Risk Management, Compliance 
and Group AML), the head of company financial reporting, the heads of the Mediobanca Group business 
areas and/or Group companies (Corporate and Investment Banking, Consumer Banking-Compass, 
Wealth  Management  Affluent–CheBanca!,  Mediobanca  Private  Banking,  Principal  Investing,  CMB, 
MAAM, Mediobanca SGR), and the Group HR Director. 
The Chief Executive Officer and General Manager, with the support of Group HR, identify internal 
staff able to guarantee short- and medium-term succession for them (the “senior talent pool”), while 
continuing to monitor the market at all times. Growth and development pathways are identified for 
the senior talent pool members, including in terms of involving them in specific strategic projects, 
exposure to the Board/Committees, and international and intra-Group rotation. Selection is based 
on an assessment of candidates’ professional and technical skills, as shown by their CVs and career 
records, performances over time, and possession and development of key leadership skills.
In the area of attracting new young talent, Mediobanca has ongoing co-operations with the best 
universities in Italy and other countries, via participation in on campus selection and employer branding 
activities. This year too, the Bank has chosen to participate in a Career Day to facilitate the recruitment 
of people with disabilities and candidates from protected categories. Mediobanca also organizes regular 
events at its own head offices, offering students and new graduates various opportunities to meet with 
the Group’s management. In this way, talent young people can engage in dialogue directly with sector 
professionals, to receive guidance and support in their training and professional choices.
The Group also offers students the possibility of completing internships to complete their academic 
training, giving them an opportunity if they wish to use their experience in conjunction with the subject 
of their thesis.
In addition to these activities, Mediobanca is building its presence on the main social networks, with 
particular attention paid to Linkedin, where a section has been built specifically in order to attract 
young talent.
During the year under review, Mediobanca was recognized as one of the Most Attractive Employers in 
Italy and as Most Associated with Professional Training and Development by Universum, a Swedish 
market research company and leader in employer branding, which each year compiles a league table of 
the most attractive employers for Italian professionals.
The Group adopts a constructive approach to professional development which is geared to achieving 
results over the long term. As proof of this commitment, instruments to support staff assessment have 
been adopted, with a view to constructing development and training pathways which are consistent and 
effective for the business.
Performance evaluation is the system which meets the need for objectivity in terms of assessing 
individual performances and defining responsibilities. At the start of each financial year the respective 
line managers assign and discuss their team members’ objectives with them (professional, operational, 