67
personal development and corporate) based on their professional profile, role within the organization 
and the strategic objectives of the unit to which they belong. Such objectives are weighted according to 
the priority assigned to each staff member, clearly established in terms of results, measurable where 
possible, achievable and at the same time challenging, and if possible, clearly delineated in terms of 
time.
Intermediate feedback during the year allows the line managers and their team members to agree on 
the degree to which the objectives have been met. The employee is encouraged to ask for clarification 
where necessary, and in any case the line manager is required to give ongoing feedback to allow their 
team members to be aware of the expected performance and ensure that each of them has the right 
skills in order to meet their objectives.
At the end of the financial year, the line managers make their assessment of the individual staff members 
as part of an objective discussion of individual performances, ensuring that the organization and each 
employee reach their objectives while respecting the Group’s corporate values, and that transparency is 
assured in the area of training opportunities, professional development and evaluation criteria for the 
individual evaluatees.
Increasing consideration is being devoted as part of the evaluation process to the achievement of 
environmental, social and governance (ESG) objectives within the individual and business areas of 
responsibility. These objectives encourage individual conduct which fosters a working environment 
where diversity is valued, and personal and professional growth respected, in accordance with 
meritocratic principles.
This year for the first time, participation in one of the CSR initiatives promoted by the Group has been 
included in the personal development objectives, with the aim of incentivizing staff involvement in these 
activities, and so making the man integral part of personal and professional growth for our staff. Each 
line manager may choose to assign an objective to one or more evaluatees assigned to them, leaving 
the individuals concerned free to choose in which initiative to participate based on their own aptitudes 
and possibilities.
Contributing factors in valorizing staff also include the quality of the skills acquired by them and their 
individual performance, any previous professional experience acquired outside the company, the internal 
pathway followed by them guided by their immediate superiors, experience “on the ground”, expertise 
in the role covered by them, the skills and potential of the individual being assessed, and compliance 
with the rules of conduct defined by the Group to ensure that conduct is aligned with the regulations 
and sector practice and to serve the interests of our clients as well as possible.
During the year under review a total of 4,598 employees were assessed (59% men and 41% women), 
equal to approx. 93% of the company population. 