70
of benefits that reflect the attention devoted by Mediobanca to the personal needs and welfare of its 
staff, including those already in retirement. The benefits are for the Group’s entire population, and may 
be distinguished by families of professionals and geographical areas but do not make provision for 
individual discretionary systems:
 Complementary pension scheme: employees are entitled to participate in complementary corporate 
pension schemes, with contribution rates distinguished by category and length of time employed by 
the company;
 Healthcare scheme: this scheme covers healthcare, dental and preventative medicine expenses for 
staff members and their family. An extensive network of doctors and dentists who are part of the 
scheme enables beneficiaries to have direct access to services without having to pay in advance and 
providing significant financial benefits;
 Accident insurance policy, Life insurance policy, and Long-term care insurance policy: the first of 
these policies guarantees coverage to staff in the event of their having an accidents either work- or 
non-work-related, is in operation 24 hours a day and has no restriction in terms of geographical 
application; the second entitles claimants to a guaranteed capital sum in the event of an employee’s 
death; and the third pays out an annuity in the event of permanent incapacitation.
 Company welfare/flexible benefit systems: these have been instituted for all staff or like-for-like 
categories of staff, as provided by the applicable tax legislation and regulations in force. Such systems 
involve the provision of non-cash services and instruments (e.g. training activities, study and education 
courses, welfare services, etc.), which Group companies make available to their staff and families, with 
the possibility of paying any amounts unused to the complementary pension scheme. Production 
and/or result bonuses provided for under complementary company contracts may be used to this 
end, or other amounts earmarked for the welfare of similar categories of employee and according to 
marginality criteria relative to the capacity to pay principle. The objective is to: expand the range of 
welfare initiatives offered contractually, in order to provide increased benefit to staff members and 
their families by enabling them to access specific products and services which can be tailored to their 
specific requirements; offer increased protection for public welfare provision; and obtain improved 
purchasing power for overall remuneration, through relief on tax and social security contributions 
permitted by law.
 Company cars: these are assigned only to the highest professional figures or those with commercial 
roles. The range of cars available is notable for the number of hybrid and/or electric vehicles on offer, 
in accordance with environmental sustainability criteria.
With reference to payment in the form of equity instruments, performance shares schemes, have been 
launched in connection with the remuneration policies.
During the year under review, a total of 144 staff belonging to various professional categories took up 
parental leave (100% of those entitled to do so). The rate of return to work after parental leave was 
95%21, and the retention rate22 97%.
21. Ratio between the number of staff taking parental leave and those who return to work afterwards
22. Ratio between staff still employed by the Mediobanca Group twelve months after returning to work after taking parental leave and those who returned to work  
  after taking parental leave during the previous financial year