87
meet their immediate needs and assisting them in understanding the extraordinary measures 
introduced by the Italian government and in seeking alternative sources to funding rather than 
bank finance.
At a time of such high market volatility, the Markets Division too has supported its clients by 
providing them with dedicated services, identifying asset classes for investments and studying 
strategies to mitigate interest rate, credit, exchange rate and equity risks too.
The Private Banking division has implemented a special focus on its clients during the Covid-19 
crisis, stepping up dialogue with them to identify the best solutions to the needs of the different 
client segments.
A programme has also been launched for all clients (including new ones), with promotional 
interest rates on new deposits. This initiative serves the dual purpose of supporting the Group’s 
funding and incentivizing the Private Banking division to develop new clients and bring in net 
new money (NNM).
In the early stages of the medical crisis, CheBanca! reduced the opening hours of its branch 
offices to the public (8.30 a.m. to 1.15 p.m.). Thereafter, as the conditions worsened and the 
restrictions became more stringent, the access was limited to appointments only and only for 
certain specific types of operation.
Dal 20 aprile è stata ripristinata l’apertura pomeridiana delle filiali con una ripresa di accessi 
rispetto alle settimane precedenti.
The branches have been open in the afternoons again since 20 April 2020, and the number of 
clients entering has increased accordingly compared to the previous weeks.
From the start of the pandemic, CheBanca! launched a series of communications initiatives to 
support clients, in particular as follows:
 Use of digital channels and online payments, with focus on IT security;
 New means of organizing branches and customer service hours;
 The chebanca.it website was restyled to include a focus on multi-channel approach, digital 
security, changes to opening hours and topics related to the emergency (e.g. applications for 
mortgage payment suspensions, layoff schemes, etc.), plus all commercial communications 
and campaigns not in line with the situation were suspended;
 Some processes were revised to allow services or products previously managed in person to 
be handled remotely;
 All advisors were in regular contact with their clients to support them in their operations and 
advise on their portfolios;
 A promotion was run on Deposit Accounts to provide a temporary asset management solution 
at a time of strong volatility, coupled with an initiative to provide support in the healthcare 
crisis in which 1x1000 of the amounts deposited was set aside to finance specific projects.
Furthermore, to align itself with the guidance issued by the Italian government, CheBanca! has 
taken the following steps: