88
 Adherence to the Italian banking association ABI convention for advances on layoff payments, 
allowing its clients to apply for advances on their supplementary income payments;
 Possibility of suspending mortgage instalment repayments for up to 18 months in the event of 
specific difficulties likely to impact negatively on a household’s overall income; 29;
 Adoption of extraordinary measures to support business activities damaged by the Covid-19 
epidemic, in compliance with the provisions of Italian Decree Law 18/20 (the “Heal Italy” 
decree).
Compass, in collaboration with Europ Assistance Italia, has offered concrete support to its 
partners by implementing healthcare coverage linked to Covid-19. This involves an insurance 
policy offered to dealers, agents and their collaborators which is free for insured parties.
Compass has also used its own website to promote the initiatives launched by the insurance 
companies with which it works, to extend accident and hospitalization coverage to include cases 
of illness due to Covid-19, for the benefit of clients who take out these policies.
Compass and Futuro, in accordance with the provisions contained in the EBA Final Report30,  
adhered to the moratoria promoted by Assofin, with the objective of guaranteeing prompt 
access to the support measures available, along with full disclosure and adequate assistance to 
consumer customers. In cases of specific financial difficulties, clients could apply for repayments 
on loans with given characteristics to be suspended31. Taking up this possibility means that 
clients could suspend repayment of the entire instalment for a period of up to six months, with 
the repayment schedule originally agreed being prolonged accordingly.  
During lockdown, Compass ha also introduced the on-phone personal loan and the on-phone 
credit card, in addition to online loans, defining new corporate processes to support businesses 
to allow them to apply for products directly by phone or via the web, without the need to 
actually come to the office.
Communications with clients have also been adapted to the emergency conditions, with 
information on payments, branch opening hours, methods for applying for Assofin moratoria 
etc. being shared via remote channels.
29. Possibility of holders of a mortgage taken out to buy a first home for an amount of no more than €250,000 to suspend repayments through the Solidarity Fund  
  managed by Consap S.p.A.
30. EBA/GL/2020 02 - Guidelines on legislative and non-legislative moratoria on loan repayments applied in the light of the COVID-19 crisis.
31. The moratoria are open to holders of consumer credit contracts who, from 21 February 2020 to 30 June 2020 find themselves in a situation of temporary financial  
  difficulty (e.g. due to having lost their job, whether permanent or “atypical” employment as defined in Article 409(3), having had their working hours suspended  
  or reduced for at least 30 days, self-employed or freelance workers who have recorded a reduction in their turnover of more than 33% in the three months after 21  
  February 2020 compared to the last quarter of 2019, and heirs with the characteristics described above of persons who have died having entered into contracts  
  but without taking out credit protection insurance policies).