89
6.1.3  Customer satisfaction and quality of service
  [GRI 102-43], [GRI 102-44]
  The Group assigns the highest importance to managing and maintaining satisfactory relations with 
its clients, including potential clients, through maintaining constant contact with them in order to 
be able to adapt the product offering swiftly to any changes in their needs and expectations.
  To this end, the dialogue process is therefore essential in seeking to understand clients’ needs and 
react promptly to any dissatisfaction they express.
  According to the 2019 report by the Italian banking and financial arbitrator (Arbitro Bancario 
Finanziario, or ABF), the entity responsible for promoting out-of court settlements with consumers, 
of the top ten groups with settlements in 2019, Mediobanca had the lowest percentage of 
acquiescence32. 
  Compass and CheBanca! some time ago launched structured processes for recording customer 
satisfaction, using internationally-recognized methodologies in order to gain a real picture of 
their clients’ perceptions, and so allowing any critical issues to be identified to be dealt with on a 
priority basis. Annual quantitative and qualitative brand satisfaction and loyalty level monitoring 
is performed via specific surveys monitoring the Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) and the Net 
Promoter Score (NPS) indicators with reference to the world of investments especially.
     Compass
      The customer satisfaction surveys conducted by Compass in the past year have involved  
    around 2,000 people (compared with 1,700 the previous year) and reflect a high  trend in  
    customer satisfaction. Salary-backed finance, credit cards and loans are among the areas  
    which received the best feedback.
      Compass also performs a customer satisfaction telephone survey to gauge satisfaction levels  
    for the inbound call service. The spontaneous responses given by some 95,000 clients between  
    July 2019 and May 2020 revealed that 94% of those who responded were thoroughly satisfied  
    with the service provided, in line with the previous reporting period.
      Research and analysis is based on information collected externally, to explore or examine  
    aspects relating to products, processes or communication.
      The listening surveys adopted are addressed to different target audiences, and may be  
    quantitative – addressed to a representative sample of the target audience - or qualitative  
    –carried out with a select group of interviewees using targeted listening techniques. The  
    analysis is also distinguished between initiatives which derive from specific and contingent  
    necessities, and monitoring available on an ongoing basis.
      The main engagement and analysis activities performed are summarized below:
        Telephone and online surveys: analysis to understand attitudes and/or experiences  
      relating to a given product/process;
        Mystery shopping: qualitative surveys carried out at competitors (POS or remote channels)  
      to assess their product offering, merchandising and client experience;
32. Reference to p. 27 of appendix to ABF annual report.