91
Private Banking. Mediobanca also won the prize of Team of The Year Mid-Market M&A for its 
leadership roles in some of the most successful deals in the Mid Cap space over the year. 
6.1.4  Transparency of information on products and services
  [GRI 417-1]
  Transparency and clarity of information are of particular importance in the area of customer 
relations.
  Compass has always paid close attention to relations with its customers, and sets great store 
by transparency, defined in the sense of fairness in relations with the market from a long-term 
perspective. 
  To this end, on its website it has published the new guide on Consumer credit made easy produced 
by the Bank of Italy, to provide practical instructions on how to choose a loan and work out the 
cost, as well as illustrating the main customer rights. All transparency-related documents on the 
product offering are also available on the website, along with the Italian financial banking arbitration 
guide, and the Italian banking association (ABI) Guide on Transfer of Payment Services; the European 
Commission leaflet Your rights when making payments in Europe; and the Central Risks Database guide, 
in Italian and German; the table showing the global average effective interest rates recorded 
for regulatory purposes in relation to usury; the terms and conditions for using the advanced 
electronic signature service using graphology techniques; and the annual reports on complaints 
and disputes. An excerpt from the Group’s Policy for Managing Complaints has also been published, 
with specific information on the means by which complaints are processed.
  All the above information is available on Compass’s website, in the sections entitled Transparency 
and On the side of the consumers.
  The website also contains Application form for activating procedure for peer arbitration and the 
Monitoring service offered by Assofin, which allows the consumer to assess whether or not the 
repayments are sustainable, as further proof of the attention devoted by the company to the issue 
of responsible lending.
  To comply with the provisions regarding Covid-19 moratoria and process requests to postpone 
instalments, Compass’s subsidiary Futuro, which provides salary-backed finance, has added a 
section to its institutional website containing the same information and process guidelines as 
Compass. The company also publishes the following documents on its website: Guide to Financial 
and Banking Arbitration, Consumer credit made simple, Buying a house: mortgages made simple (in German 
and Italian), a table containing the interest rates, annual reports on complaints, an excerpt from 
the Policy for Managing Complaints, and documents on transparency in the relevant section. 
  Transparency has always been one of the main pillars on which the CheBanca! business model is 
based, using simple language which is relevant to the end-client, summarizing contracts to make 
them shorter and easier to understand, stating prices clearly and notifying clients promptly of any 
changes in contractual terms and conditions.
  CheBanca! addresses its clients through various channels, including its Facebook page (which has 
over 200,000 followers), through a media programme which is rich in service content, engagement 
and financial education.