93
     Mediobanca Private Banking
      Mediobanca Private Banking offers its clients an online banking service which allows them to  
    consult their accounts and arrange money transfers remotely.
      The Mediobanca Private Banking FAs engage in continuous financial training activities, to enable  
    their clients to make an informed assessment of the solutions and services being offered to them.  
    Specific training events are also organized on relevant issues, such as tax, generational issues and  
    new investment instruments. The online banking service also guarantees straightforward access  
    for customers to statements of their positions.
      In 2017 Mediobanca Private Banking launched The Equity Club (TEC), a club deal which brings  
    together some of the most important names in Italian capitalism, which has attracted some  
    €500m in commitments for investments in outstanding Italian businesses, with a particular focus  
    on medium-sized enterprise. To date, a total of €150m has already been invested, and a further  
    €100m is in the process of being executed.
     Mediobanca SGR
      In  April  2016,  Mediobanca  SGR  launched  the  second  Mediobanca Fondo per le Imprese  
    2.0 which in two closing dates raised a total of €105m and has made six investments for  
    approx. €48m. The fund helps to finance Italian domestic small and medium-sized enterprises  
    with  sound  fundamentals,  which  require  financial  resources  in  order  to  finance  their  
    development and growth plans in the medium term.
     Compagnie Monégasque de Banque
      On the back of the successes achieved in previous years, Compagnie Monégasque de Banque  
    has completed the fourth year of its Academy for women and finance, a financial education  
    programme aimed at women and run in English. The objective of this programme is to allow  
    the women who participate in it to achieve a higher level of independence in managing their  
    estates and managing their investment strategy.
  The Group’s co-operation with Junior Achievement, also continues. JA is the largest non-profit 
organization for economic and business education in schools in the world. The partnership includes 
the involvement of Mediobanca, CheBanca! and Compass management, who take on the role of 
“company expert”, working alongside the teachers in the middle and senior schools during lessons 
on economics, business studies and personal finance.
  The first cycle of Crescere, che impresa, the project for financial education launched in September 
2018 in partnership with Junior Achievement, has just been completed.
  The initiative, which once again included involvement by Group staff, focused on schools in certain 
poorer areas of Puglia, Sicily, Tuscany, Liguria and Lombardy. Some of the new features introduced 
include:
     Digital platform: digital content for lessons in the classroom, teaching kit for the class and  
    family activity kit (this section was enriched and revised following the lockdown due to  
    Covid-19);
     E-learning modules for volunteers and teachers: online section providing information on the  
    programme, classroom lesson preparation, and development of a community of JA volunteers  
    and teachers;