97
  Mediobanca will therefore continue with its ESG process, to support responsible investing and 
sustainable products, and to adapt to the new market standards in line with the principal international 
players.
  Mediobanca SGR offers the possibility of investing in Mediobanca Social Impact, a balanced global 
investment fund, for philanthropic purposes. The fund is structured in such a way as to guarantee each 
beneficiary has a recurring flow of revenue over time to allow investors to support the recipient on an 
ongoing basis at no additional cost. Mediobanca SGR credits back two-thirds of its management fees 
to the beneficiaries, in line with the market and comparable asset management products. During the 
year under review, approx. €204,000 has been devoted to philanthropic institutions which are parties 
to the fund.
  CheBanca!, has consolidated its interest in financial products that meet environmental, social 
and economic sustainability criteria, has included financial instruments in its product offering, 
UCITS36,  in  particular,  which  meet  these  criteria  in  portfolio  selection  and  management. 
In particular, as confirmation of its commitment to the environment, CheBanca! has launched green 
mortgages for people looking to buy or refurbish properties in energy class A or B, with a lower spread 
than mortgages for other properties.
  Furthermore, aware of their clients’ increasing sensitivity to these issues and the potential of 
instruments meeting these criteria, CheBanca! is monitoring certain ESG strategies, including them in 
the funds they recommend. Some 39.7% of total client assets are invested in funds with a Morningstar 
sustainability rating which is at least average, and 42% have been assigned a High or Above Average 
rating. The increasing attention being paid to ethical and sustainable products is also discussed at 
length in the meetings and conference calls with the commercial network.
  Outside Italy, Compagnie Monégasque de Banque, through its subsidiary Compagnie Monégasque 
de Gestion, manages funds for various institutional investors who have shown they are increasingly 
demanding when it comes to ESG issues.
  In view of this, all funds managed by CMG are analysed according to ESG criteria, through individual 
reports provided by CACEIS in partnership with Vigeo Eiris, a leading social and environmental rating 
agency. These reports assess the non-financial performance and carbon footprint of the portfolios, 
allowing the products’ impact to be measured precisely.
  Furthermore, to expand the product offering addressed to its clients, CMG has overhauled its 
own  Monaction International ESG fund, which invests in international equities based on robust 
environmental, social and governance criteria for its sector.
  Finally, according to analysis conducted by Trucost (S&P Global group), the Monaco Eco+ fund has been 
one of the best performers compared to its peers in terms of environmental impact, CO emissions and 
2
risk analysis
  RAM  Active  Investments,  incorporates  environmental,  social  and  governance  (ESG) 
issues  in  its  analysis  processes  and  investment  decisions.  With  its  robust  proprietary 
machine  learning  infrastructure,  RAM  adopts  a  systematic  process  for  selecting 
companies  which  combines  financial  and  ESG  data,  using  structured  information  flows 
(numerical  data)  and  unstructured  ones  as  well  (audio,  video  and  text  files,  images  etc.).  
36.  Undertakings for the collective investment in transferable securities