99
        Standardize IT processes, as envisaged by the programme to outsource IT infrastructure
        Reduce the technology gap by updating obsolete infrastructure systems and components
      Exploiting Data Value
        Develop the data quality processes and architectures
        Improve the quality and effectiveness of the regulatory reporting
     Resilience of Systems and Risk Management
        Improve the resilience and high reliability of the IT systems (DR consolidation and IT  
      systems resilience)
        Strengthen the ongoing governance of IT risk and cyber security issues.
  The Group has therefore set itself the objective of systematically observing the development of 
strongly innovative technologies, including at the experimental phase when they are potentially 
disruptive to business models, using a highly selective test-and-learn approach leading to targeted 
implementation of innovative projects.
  The digitalization issue has been developed coherently in different ways within the Group.
  CheBanca!,  which  was  conceived  with  an  innovative  multi-channel  model,  has 
grown  in  terms  of  both  product  offering  and  service  model,  accompanying  and  in 
many  cases  anticipating  market  changes.  The  bank  makes  cutting-edge  technology 
instruments  available  to  its  clients,  thus  enabling  integrated  multi-channel  interaction. 
During the financial year under review, work has continued on developing the CheBanca! app, and 
the virtual assistant or chatbots EDO featured on both website and app has been enhanced further.  
The assistant is able to accompany the client when they register, supporting them through the most 
complicated steps which historically are the ones where the highest drop-out rates are recorded. 
As at January 2020 the virtual assistant managed 15% of incoming contacts, while in April, 
during the Covid-19 emergency, it was managing something like 26%, rising from an average 
of 800 chats per day to 1,500, with 70% of responses not having to pass via the operator. 
There was also further enhancement of RPA (Robot Process Automation) in 2020, allowing back 
office processes to be automated further. At last, management of editorial contents has been 
migrated to the innovative HCL Digital Experience 9.5 platform, which provides much higher 
flexibility and protection in managing the new institutional website expected to launch in September 
2020.At last, management of editorial contents has been migrated to the innovative HCL Digital 
Experience 9.5 platform, which provides much higher flexibility and protection in managing the 
new institutional website expected to launch in September 2020.
  During the financial year under review and in line with the Digital Strategy Plan previously adopted, 
Compass has consolidated the implementation of various initiatives which are innovative both in terms 
of process and technology adopted, in order to improve the customer experience of its own clients.  
Some of the more noteworthy initiatives include customization and optimization of the workflow 
for granting loans via the internet (requests for documentation, identification, signature, approval) 
and for client management (accounts managed from branch offices, with on-phone loans granted 
to applicants who are already customers) in order to speed up the timescales and remove possible 