We are among the founding partners and members of the governing body that 
meets every quarter. At the end of 2018, Cristina Tosi was also re-elected to the 
Governing Council, as Vice President and Treasurer.
We participate in development projects, available training courses and the 
dissemination of market data.
SISTE:  Italian  Society  of  applied  sciences  to  botanicals  and  health 
products.
We support the society through the annual membership fee and we participate 
in the proposed initiatives and study groups.
ITALIA CHE CAMBIA: Information website.
We  provide  economic  support to this organisation which reports and shares 
information  relating  to  entrepreneurs  of  both  sexes,  municipalities  and 
organisations and bodies that are implementing policies of change aimed at 
human and environmental sustainability to built a new cultural paradigm.
THE PRODUCTS
ow does Pegaso first develop a product?
HThe scientific staff comes up with original and innovative ideas, developing high-quality, 
safe and effective formulas.
This is a conscious ethical and professional choice aimed at providing natural 
solutions for health problems which fully respect individuals and the environment and 
are developed with the utmost scientific rigour.
Our objective is to develop a unique and effective offering: we are the 
first users of our products and our first clients are our families and friends.
We directly choose raw materials and we select facilities with the best production standards.
We check and register every event that fails to comply with manufacturing specifications in 
order to guarantee consistent quality over time.
We verify compliance with manufacturing quality procedures through inspections and testing 
carried out on finished products.
We also choose the ideal transportation method to protect our products at every stage of 
the supply chain, in all seasons.
We require our partners to produce products free from allergens like gluten and lactose, 
artificial sweeteners and colours.
13