STAKEHOLDERS
BoD Employees
BoD members who manage the business and  They are employees who operate within the 
establish the corporate guidelines. central and operating headquarters and 
who are subject to a national collective 
Trade Clients
bargaining agreement.
We consider “clients” all supply chain 
Agents and medical 
intermediaries downstream of the company, 
representatives
natural persons and legal entities who 
purchase our products and sell them to  These are people tasked with conducting 
consumers. Specifically, they are  sales  activities  with  trade  professionals 
Wholesalers, Pharmacists, Herbalist Shops,  (Herbalist's  shops,  Pharmacies,  Chemists..) 
Chemist’s, Medical Equipment Stores. and  disseminating  scientific  medical 
information to Physicians, throughout Italy. 
Banks
They  have  ongoing,  stable  relationships, 
These are financial institutions with which  therefore  we  invest  in  their  training  and 
the company has an existing financial  engagement to maintain company loyalty. 
relationship. Banks support our development  Suppliers are also included in this category.
projects and with them we create an 
External collaborators
ongoing relationship of reciprocal 
knowledge for the company’s economic  These are professionals or collaborators who 
and financial development. provide specialist professional services, on 
an ongoing or occasional basis.
Training centres
Suppliers are also included in this category.
This category also includes speakers and 
These are centres which handle university 
trainers for training courses organised by us 
and postgraduate education - medical 
and  by  third  parties,  tasked  with 
degree or degrees for health professionals.
disseminating  scientific  and  technical 
Final consumers content to clients and the public.
Suppliers
These are users of our products, the people 
who acquire the product to maintain their 
They provide services, capital goods and 
wellness and supplement deficiencies.
manufacturing  activities,  upstream  and 
downstream of the production supply chain.
Category associations
Suppliers in the manufacturing pipeline are 
Associations where the company supports  among the most important and strategic 
the associated aims through economic  stakeholders as they enable us to turn our 
participation or support for projects and  formulation  ideas  into  tangible  finished 
specific incentives. products.
Trade Physicians
Local Communities - Bodies
Physicians  are  intermediate  figures  and 
These are non-profit organisations, 
influence the dissemination of products to 
bodies, local (province of Verona) and 
patients-final  users.  They  are  among  the 
national public institutions who we donate 
most important and strategic stakeholders 
to through funding and products.
for  us  as  they  are  competent  authority 
figures who guide patient choices.
21