The stakeholders were selected according to these criteria:
All categories of in-house stakeholders.
External categories who we interact with more frequently.
Most significant stakeholders for the company according to the goals set out by the 
owners. The term significant is intended to denote those with greatest influence on our 
work and the areas of our interest.
DEFINITION OF STAKEHOLDERS
or every category of stakeholders we have given a clear and comprehensive 
F
definition, stating how they are involved and how often.
The  full  table  is  provided  in  the  annexes  section,  available  at  the 
following  link:  bit.ly/Methodology-annexes-SR2019  or  scan  the  QR  Code 
containing the URL.
All the points that emerged from engagement with stakeholders were linked 
back to topics covered by GRI STANDARDS as per the table given in the 
annexes  section,  available  at  the  following  link: 
bit.ly/Methodology-annexes-SR2019 or scan the QR Code containing the URL.
In January 2020 a new questionnaire will be compiled to identify those 
stakeholders deemed relevant for Schwabe Pharma Italia.
INVOLVEMENT AND ACTIONS
BoD
The Pegaso BoD convenes twice a year: the purpose of the first meeting, which 
takes place at the start of the year, is to approve the results of the preceding 
accounting  year  and  analyse  activities  planned  for  the  forthcoming  year, 
including those aimed at reducing environmental impacts and those in favour 
of social initiatives. The second meeting, meanwhile, takes place in November, 
generally  via  video-conference,  and  is  dedicated  to  the  presentation, 
discussion and approval of the corporate development plan for the medium 
term (next four years).
Employees
Participation  in  the  sustainability  project  was  excellent  and  generated 
behaviours and actions proposed by employees. Ongoing collection of data, 
periodic refresher meetings and participation in the report presentation event, 
are  all  ways  of  involving  and  engaging  stakeholders,  together  with  good 
practices:
24