Company canteen service: through the supply of meals prepared by 
socially  disadvantaged  individuals  in  need  of  reintegration  into  the 
workplace. Employees who wish to use this service can convert their lunch 
voucher (benefit) into a meal supplied in the workplace.
Use of washable dishes (plates, cutlery, cups and glasses)
Water in glass bottles.
Purchase of coffee in compostable pods with recyclable packaging.
Waste management.
External collaborators
The choice of external collaborators, consultants, is based on the individuals 
and the type of performance required. Their involvement, in terms of human 
relations, is on a par with that of employees. This type of professional figure will 
be reduced in 2020 in order to implement internal expertise through employee 
specialisation, as part of the merger with Shwabe Pharma Italia.
Agents and medical representatives
Their  involvement  is  a  basic  element  for  building  professional  relationships 
aimed at transferring values and applying company directives on the ground.
Training: activation of a scientific and commercial training course on 
Schwabe products. Activation of training on emotional communication 
techniques for Schwabe Pharma Italia Medical representatives with a view 
to alignment of working methods.
Sales meeting: with the goal of providing technical and scientific updates on 
products,  presenting  company  directives  and  new  developments,  and 
exchanging information.
IMS Area Managers: they provide support to colleagues throughout the area. 
Area  meetings  (north,  centre,  south)  are  also  organised  to  exchange 
information and create a cohesive group with a team spirit, the aim being to 
follow company directives for the physicians target group. These figures answer 
to the Scientific Information Director.
Suppliers
Sustainable production supply chain: we launched a process of involvement 
with sustainability with some suppliers who are more attuned to the goal of 
developing a "sustainable" company network. Despite there being a certain 
level of interest in this project, it remains challenging to conduct a survey and 
implement accurate and systematic monitoring of the social and environmental  TARGET 4.4, 4.7
impacts of some suppliers.
25