FOCUS ON SUSTAINABILITY - GOALS
1. TARGET HOW IT WAS ACHIEVED IMPACT ON
Creation and sharing of a grid containing  The current procedure (Supplier Validation -  New suppliers.
a set of minimum environmental and social  Procedure PDSCI0100) has a data collection grid  Pegaso employees.
2017
sustainability requirements (guiding  that includes the supplier's certification information.
criteria) as a basis for evaluating new  Addition of a specific request for sustainability 
Pegaso suppliers. requirements.
The formalisation of this practice is a 
LEVEL 
natural step towards the creation of a  The target is considered partly reached since it has 
REACHED
network of sustainable enterprises  not been possible to create a network of 
50%
(sustainable supply chain). sustainable companies.
2. TARGET HOW IT WAS ACHIEVED IMPACT ON
Plan opportunities for discussion and  The sustainability group, created in 2018,  Employees.
verification with employees to ascertain the  encourages and maintains a keen focus on the 
2018
level of success of their good intentions and  established targets.
those declared by the company, and to 
identify potential areas for improvement.
LEVEL 
REACHED
100%
3. TARGET HOW IT WAS ACHIEVED IMPACT ON
Schedule opportunities for discussion and  Dissemination of company values through  All in-house and 
2017 sharing of the company's clear values and  communications released by the press office. external Stakeholders 
2019 character traits, with all stakeholders  Inclusion of the same values on the Pegaso  involved: Employees, 
(collaborators, partners, etc.). Stakeholder  corporate website, in the consumer guide. Customers, etc.
engagement - BRAND REPUTATION. Drafting in 2018 of the stakeholder engagement 
policy through the involvement of workers.
LEVEL 
REACHED
100%
4. TARGET HOW IT WAS ACHIEVED IMPACT ON
Project to collect empty containers for some  The project representative has responded to the  Employees; Local 
of our products for creative reuse (e.g. they  needs of schools attended by the children of some  Community.
2019
can be brought to the creative recycling  colleagues in terms of material to be recycled and 
centre or other associations who can use  reused in creative projects, collecting and 
them). distributing these materials (jars, pouches, packing 
peanuts, boxes, coffee pods, elastic bands, 
LEVEL
bubblewrap, tops).
REACHED
100%
28