The owners gave notice of negotiations for the sale of the company shares 
more than 6 months in advance, with one-to-one meetings with each employee, 
in line with our shared values. We share and value successful milestones, we 
celebrate birthdays, weddings and births.
WORK QUALITY
WELFARE PLAN.
In  2019,  once  again,  the  services offered  by  the  company  Welfare  plan 
INDIVIDUAL WELLBEING IS WELLBEING FOR THE COMPANY were used by 
all employees and concerned the following areas: travel, gym use, children's 
education fees. TARGET 5.5
WELLBEING AT WORK.
Admission to the competition "Verona Aziende Sicure 2.0 - Guadagnare in 
salute”,  promoted  by  the  ASL  9  local  health  authority  in  Veneto  Region, 
allowed us access to a grant of € 11,000 to fund the project “Here's another  2019
way to wellbeing at work”. It involves the introduction of measures aimed at  Fruit 
improving the health of employees in the workplace, in addition to the existing  consumed
yoga course, for a full year: 687 kg
Weekly supply of fresh fruit.
Medical check-up (one at the start of the year and one at the end): the 
check-up includes a calculation of metabolic age, body composition 
analysis indicating lean mass and fat mass, plus nutrition advice.
15 minutes of individual neck/back massage in the office every month. 
Excellent  relations  with  Verona  Innovazione  led  to  us  becoming  a 
testimonial at regional level.
WORK-LIFE BALANCE.
The tangible actions we have implemented for all our collaborators are 
aimed  at  people  as  individuals,  in  keeping  with  our  mission:  to  help 
people stay well. Activation and regulation, for all staff, of SMART WORKING.
YOGA: a yoga course is offered (1 hour a week) to employees, and is also open 
to family members.
LAPTOP  COMPUTERS:  to  allow  mobility  within  the  company  headquarters, 
promote meetings and work groups, enabling employees to work from home; when 
necessary, laptops can also be used for personal activities.
33