LEGAL COMPLIANCE AND ADHERENCE TO SAFETY STANDARDS.
All  our  products must  demonstrate  adherence  to  safety  regulations  to 
obtain  production  authorisation.  Products are  periodically  subjected  to 
evaluations for improvement to maintain current safety standards. We have 
not had any penalties or negative reports,nor have there been any cases 
of non-compliance with voluntary codes of conduct. In particular, we have 
not recorded any instances of non-compliance for which we were responsible, 
incidents due to incorrect labelling, incidents occurring in the period prior to the 
reporting period, nor withdrawal of products due to non-compliance. To date, 
we  have  not  had  any  administrative  or  criminal  sanctions  regarding 
misleading advertising and marketing, commercial promotions or sponsorships.
FOCUS ON SUSTAINABILITY - GOALS
1. TARGET HOW IT WAS ACHIEVED IMPACT ON
Include “Made in Italy” on products  In the absence of national legislation, the goal was  Employees; Suppliers; 
where possible. not pursued as it was not achievable. Trade clients and 
2019
final consumers.
LEVEL
REACHED
0%
2. TARGET HOW IT WAS ACHIEVED IMPACT ON
Reduction in production material waste  Production material: attention is unwavering and planning The environment; 
(packaging and raw materials) and on  allows optimisation of pouches and raw materials. One  Local community; 
2019
marketing material, both in quantitative and  raw material was tested again in order to confirm its  Suppliers; Employees; 
economic terms. complete safety for reuse. Managers.
Communication material: the transfer from external 
logistics to the Schwabe warehouse resulted in the 
LEVEL
elimination of some materials that will not be used due to 
REACHED
a change of logo and new corporate strategies.
10%
3. TARGET HOW IT WAS ACHIEVED IMPACT ON
To produce content on “how a product is  No content on how a product is developed was  Employees; Marketing 
developed” using the storytelling  produced using the storytelling method. suppliers (agency, 
2019
technique. graphic artist); Final 
consumers; Trade 
clients.
LEVEL
REACHED
0%
42