PRESENTATION OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
A NATURAL HANDING OVER OF THE BATON: 
FROM PEGASO TO SCHWABE
his 2019 report represents a moment of transition from the analysis of the 
T
sustainability of the Pegaso company to that which Schwabe will begin working 
on in 2020.
TALKING A company whose entire philosophy is already about great attention to human 
wellbeing and the respect for nature.
Everyone at Pegaso thus has the opportunity to involve their new colleagues in 
materiality analysis, the identification of stakeholders and the drafting of the 
future report which will be compiled over the course of the year.
PROMOTING
HEALTH
This seventh year of our annual report concludes the 2017-2019 three-year 
reporting period and relative objectives, included in the project Focus on 
Sustainability, begun in 2016.
In the current sustainability report (calendar year 2019) we maintained the 
WORKING graphic structure of the 2017 report and the SDGs relating to our business 
TOGETHER
model. Over the course of the year, all employees took part in the data 
reporting process.
The  sustainability  report  is  presented  to  internal  stakeholders  and  some 
GENERATING external stakeholders during an official event held at company headquarters, 
WEALTH
which leads to the publication of articles in local and sector publications; in 
addition, it is published on the corporate website and a printed copy is also 
sent to key stakeholders. Several copies are displayed in common areas and 
rooms dedicated to meetings with external suppliers and, lastly, an English 
PLANNING version is drafted for sharing with the Schwabe Group. The scope of this report 
HEALTH
is limited to the footprint of the Arbizzano (Verona) facility.
TAKING CARE
OF THE
ENVIRONMENT The director of the sustainability project to contact is Monica Girelli (monica.girelli@schwabe.it) 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. 
All topics that we report below are in compliance with GRI requirements and integrated with 
additional information where necessary, in addition no issues highlighted by stakeholders 
have required additional extra GRI studies.
6