 
Key changes taking place during the year  [GRI 102-10] 
The key changes taking place during the year have involved the group's configuration and 
dimension. In addition to completing the integration of the network banks into the parent 
company,12 two substantial operations, as described below, were carried out. 
As part of the Group’s programme to refocus on its core business, the contract for the sale of 
100% of the share capital in UBI Banca International S.A., with headquarters in Luxembourg, 
to EFG International A.G., an international player specialising in asset management and 
private banking services, with headquarters in Zurich, was completed. The perimeter of the 
sale included approximately €0.9 billion of direct funding and approximately €3 billion of 
indirect funding, consisting mainly of assets under custody. The sale was executed on 1st 
November 2017 against valuable consideration substantially in line with the net assets of UBI 
International, and had no impact on the UBI Banca Group’s capital ratios. 
On 10th May 2017, UBI Banca executed the acquisition from the National Resolution Fund, for 
the price of €1, of 100% of the share capital in Nuova Banca delle Marche, Nuova Banca 
dell'Etruria  e  del  Lazio  and  Nuova  Cassa  di  Risparmio  di  Chieti  (the  “Target  Bridge 
Institutions”,  hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  ”New  Banks”)  under  a  purchase  and  sale 
agreement of 18th January 2017 with the Bank of Italy as manager of and on behalf of the 
National Resolution Fund (the "Seller"). With this transaction, in return for the acceptance of 
low and contractually limited risk, the UBI Group increased its overall market share in terms 
of both lending and direct funding and consolidated it marked  coverage of the geographic 
areas  in  which  it  was  only  partially  or  not  present,  with  a  positive  impact  on  ordinary 
profitability. Altogether, the Group acquired a over 900,000 customers, 547 branches and 
5,000 employees13 and in connection with the operation it carried out and increase in its share 
capital of €400 million, to maintain a level of capitalization consistent with the value prior to 
the acquisition (a fully-loaded CET1 ratio of over 11%)14. 
 
Commitments to sustainability  [GRI 102-12:13] 
UBI Banca has adopted governance procedures mechanisms as provided under the Corporate 
Governance  Code  for  Listed  Companies,  issued  in  1999  by  the  Corporate  Governance 
Committee of the Italian Stock Exchange and updated in July 2015,15 and continues with the 
commitment made by the former BPU Banca which signed up to the ten universal principles of 
the Global Compact promoting human rights, protection of labour and the environment and 
the fight against corruption. 
In the commercial framework the Group complies with the European Code on Home Loans 
signed by the European consumer and banking associations and with the principles of the 
Voluntary Advertising Code of the Istituto di Autodisciplina Pubblicitaria (Italy’s advertising 
standards  authority),  the  first  edition  of  which  dates  back  to  1966.  In  2014  it  adhered 
voluntarily  to  the  Italian  Responsible  Payments  Code  promoted  by 
Assolombarda (Lombard employers’ association), making a commitment to 
comply with terms and conditions agreed for the payment of suppliers and 
more generally to spread a culture of efficient, punctual and rapid payment 
practices. To date, contracts with suppliers provide a maximum payment 
deferral  of  90  days  from  the  invoice  date  (0.13%  of  the  total  volume  of 
purchases). The average payment period in 2017 was 29.7 days. 
UBI Banca is also a member of associations in the sector and organizations that support 
initiatives to carry out projects to promote and disseminate best corporate accountability and 
sustainability practice: 
                                              
12 Reports and Accounts 2017, Consolidated Management Report- Significant events taking place in 2017. 
13 Reports and Accounts 2017, Consolidated Management Report- Significant events taking place in 2017. 
14 Reports and Accounts 2017, Consolidated Management Report- Equity and capital adequacy 
15 Report on corporate governance and the ownership structure of UBI Banca SpA. 
 
Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 
2017 Sustainability Report - Profile - Pg.10 