 
 
Regulatory      and                  
Potential    important  risks  organisational     risk 
identified  for  financial  mitigation controls  in 
Topic  Boundary  intermediaries  place at UBI Banca 
CREATION OF VALUE 
The Bank's primary objective is the  Groups,  shareholders,  Unfavourable  perceptions  of  Overall  structure  of  the 
creation of value, to ensure, through  staff,  suppliers,  local  consumers,  investors,  and  corporate  governance 
appropriate  levels  of  profitability,  and regional units of  other  stakeholders  regarding  model. 
remuneration for shareholders and  government  and  UBI's  sustainability,  impacting 
Model  of  strategic 
staff,  and  to  maintain  the  capital  community.  business  development  as  a 
planning  and  risk 
strength required to support credit  result  of  low  ratings, 
management framework. 
activities.    inadequate  strategies  to 
optimise the brand and make it 
The creation of value benefits all 
stand  out  against  its 
stakeholders, directly or through the 
competitors,  inadequate 
indirect  impact  of  grassroots 
communication  and 
activities  and  the  communities 
involvement  in  topics  of 
involved. 
sustainability  and/or 
inconsistencies  between 
statements and actions. 
Inadequate  forward-looking 
assessments of changes in the 
regulatory  environment, 
consumer  preferences,  or 
market  conditions,  impacting 
UBI's activities and those of its 
customers. 
Loss  of  commercial 
opportunities  in  connection 
with the development of new 
products  and  services, 
segments of the customer base, 
and  economic  sectors  of 
environmental  or  social 
interest. 
INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE CONDUCT 
Respect  for  the  rules  and  Group, community.  Inadequate  staff  training  and  Model 231/2001. 
fundamental  human  rights  and  awareness  programmes, 
Policies for management of 
promoting  compliance  with  such  internal  supervision  systems, 
non-compliance risk and 
rules by the Group’s partners, as an  mechanisms  for  identifying 
organizational audit and 
essential  condition  for  the  violations  and  protecting 
compliance units.  
functioning of the company and its  whistle  blowers,  potentially 
constituent  systems  and  leading  to  violations  of  the  Internal rules of procedure 
organizations.  standards  and  codes  of  self- against money laundering, 
regulation  (with  particular  financing of terrorism, and 
As a business, meeting objectives by 
reference  to  ethical,  usury.  
correctly  addressing  competitors 
environmental,  and  social 
and  maintaining  proper  relations  aspects  of  management)  and  Policies and guidelines for 
with  government  and  the  market  involvement in illegal practices  critical sectors. 
regulation authorities. 
and  activities,  or  in  ethical, 
As  a  bank,  contributing  to  environmental,  or  social 
preventing and fighting corruption,  controversies. 
money laundering and usury.    
 
 
 
 
Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 
2017 Sustainability Report - Strategy - Pg.16 
 