 
 
Regulatory  and                  
Potential    important  risks  organisational    risk 
identified  for  financial  mitigation controls  in 
Topic  Boundary  intermediaries  place at UBI Banca 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT 
Corporate governance systems and  Group, partners, staff  Gaps in the composition of the  Criteria for appointment of 
effective  and  efficient  and community.  governing bodies, in processes  members and composition 
organizational bases for the pursuit  of  communication  with  of the management and 
of  strategic  objectives,  with  management and stakeholders  supervision bodies.  
particular reference to composition  and in delegating authority in 
Self-assessment process 
(including  gender  balance),  the  area  of  sustainability. 
and induction programme.  
remuneration  and  valuation  of  Inadequate  consideration  of 
services of governing bodies.  scenario  variables,  Internal risk management 
sustainability  priorities,  and  and control system. 
Adequacy  of  the  sustainability 
stakeholders'  expectations  in 
governance structure and processes,  strategic  planning,  decision-  
with  particular  reference  to  the 
making  and  operational 
integration  of  stakeholders' 
processes. 
expectations and environmental and 
social issues of importance in the  Performance measurement and 
long-term strategy.  incentive systems inconsistent 
with  the  implementation  of 
Efficacy of the internal control and 
sustainability  strategies  and 
risk  management  systems  so  that 
objectives. 
the impacts generated or sustained 
by business activity can be managed  Inadequate  identification  and 
from the environmental and social  management of environmental 
standpoints.  and social risks with significant 
impacts  on  the  Group's 
activities. 
RESPECT FOR THE CUSTOMER 
Development  of  mutually  Group,  customers,  Failing  to  comply  with  Policies and guidelines 
satisfactory customer relations and  community.  regulations,  agreements,  relating to commercial 
loyalty,  not  only  by  providing  standards,  and  codes  of  self- practices and product 
excellent  products  and  services  regulation  in  the  areas  of  development.  
meeting  their  demands  delivered  transparency  and  business 
Customer  satisfaction 
with  transparent  information,  as  practices,  inadequate 
monitoring system. 
well  as  respect  for  persons,  their  information  on  products, 
interests, security, and privacy.  services  and  data  protection, 
with repercussions on levels of 
customer satisfaction and with 
the  risk  of  sustaining 
operational  losses  and 
reputational damages. 
COMMITMENT TO THE LOCAL ECONOMY 
Support  for  the  real  economy,  Group,  customers,  Structural  unemployment  or  Strategic guidelines and 
responsibly selecting credit to local  suppliers, community.  underemployment,  increased  business plan. 
households and enterprises for the  inequalities  and  levels  of 
Product development 
development  of  consumption  and  poverty against a backdrop of 
policies.  
investment.  crisis  in the welfare systems, 
with  damping  effects  on  the  Dedicated organisational 
Support  for  households  and 
local  economy  and  units. 
enterprises,  including  those 
repercussions  on  the  Group's 
experiencing cyclical difficulties and  activity levels and profitability.   
contributing to the development of 
infrastructures  and  services  of 
public interest. 
 
Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 
2017 Sustainability Report - Strategy - Pg.17 
 