 
 
Regulatory  and                  
Potential    important  risks  organisational    risk 
identified  for  financial  mitigation controls  in 
Topic  Boundary  intermediaries  place at UBI Banca 
ENHANCEMENT AND WELL-BEING OF PERSONNEL 
Creation  of  high-quality  jobs,  Group,  employees,  Inability to attract talent and  Contractual  instruments 
attracting higher levels of talent and  community.  inadequate management,  and  management 
supporting  ongoing  professional  communication and training  processes.  
development.  activities, adversely affecting 
Remuneration  and 
human resource development 
Providing  every  worker  with  the  incentives policies.  
in the Group, and its capacity 
best position through opportunities 
to achieve the established  Model  231/2001  and 
to achieve their own goals, levels of 
strategic objectives.  occupational  health  and 
welfare,  to  reconcile  private  and 
safety  management 
professional  life  and  occupational  Inadequate  assessment  and 
system. 
health and safety.  management  of  occupational 
health  and  safety  risks,  with 
potential operating losses and 
reputational repercussions. 
DIALOGUE WITH TRADE UNIONS 
Guaranteeing effective freedom of  Group, staff.  Inadequate  trade  union  Specialised  process  and 
association  and  collective  relations resulting in tensions  dedicated  organisational 
bargaining.  and/or  unrest,  with  potential  structure. 
repercussions  on  UBI’s 
Managing relations with trade union   
reputation,  its  strategic 
organisations  to  find  mutually-
performance  and  corporate 
beneficial solutions to create value 
objectives. 
for both the company and staff. 
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES AND NON-DISCRIMINATION 
Managing  diversity,  and  more  Group, staff.  Inadequate  diversity  Personnel  management 
specifically  gender,  reflecting  management,  with  particular  processes  with  dedicated 
ethical  requirements  of  non- reference to gender diversity,  organisational units. 
discrimination  and  ensuring  equal  having potential repercussions 
 Remuneration  and 
opportunities for staff in support of  on  UBI’s  reputation  and  its 
incentive policies. 
human  and  professional  strategic  performance  and 
achievement.  corporate objectives. 
In  an  increasingly  competitive, 
constantly-changing  market, 
requirements must also be met for 
growth  in  the  Group's  human 
resources  with  the  best  resources 
available on the labour market. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 
2017 Sustainability Report - Strategy - Pg.18 
 