 
 
Regulatory  and                  
Potential   important  risks  organisational    risk 
identified  for  financial  mitigation controls  in 
Topic  Boundary  intermediaries  place at UBI Banca 
COMMITMENT TO THE COMMUNITY 
Ability  to  grasp  opportunities  in  Customers,  Structural  unemployment  or  Guidelines  for  grants 
social  development  to  take  community.  underemployment,  increased  drawing  from  articles  of 
appropriate  commercial  actions  inequality and poverty levels in  association-related  profits 
with goods and services to support  a  context  of  crisis  in  the  and  sponsorship 
economic  inclusion  of  welfare systems, with adverse  management process.  
disadvantaged  persons  and  to  effects on quality of life within 
Participation  in  the 
achieve  objectives  that  are  the community. 
Foundation  for  Financial 
important  to  the  community  in 
Education and Savings. 
terms of social services. 
Optimisation  of  the  Group’s  local 
roots with the capacity to interpret 
trends  in  the  social  context  and 
respond to the community's social, 
cultural,  and  economic  interests 
through  the  implementation  of 
strategic philanthropic initiatives. 
Promotion  of  financial  education, 
more specifically for young persons, 
to  enable  them  to  make  better-
informed  economic  and  financial 
decisions  and  development  of 
socially-responsible investments. 
COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT 
Responsible management of the use  Group, customers,  Inefficient energy management  Model  231/2001  and 
of  materials,  energy  consumption,  community.  impacting the costs involved in  environmental policy.  
waste  treatment,  and  corporate  managing  the  Group's 
  Dedicated  regulatory 
mobility.  infrastructure.  
instruments and dedicated 
Contributing  to  improved  Natural  disasters  and  the  organizational  units 
environmental  services  for  consequences  of  climate  focusing on specific topics. 
customers  and  local  infrastructure  change,  more  specifically 
 
endowments  and  more  generally,  extreme meteorological events 
support  the  transition  to  an  impacting  the  Group's  assets 
economy  that  has  a  reduced  and  customers'  economic 
environmental impact.  activities. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 
2017 Sustainability Report - Strategy - Pg.19 
 