 
Integrity in corporate conduct 
       [GRI 102-16:17] 
Compliance with the rules is the first principle of sound, prudent management that has 
consistently characterized UBI on the market. It is the principal foundation for the trust of 
customers and all other stakeholders and the first component of the objective of "banking 
fairly and well" as a way of affirming a distinctive identity on the market, reflected in the 
observance not only of external standards, but also of the principles, values and rules of 
conduct defined independently in the Code of Ethics and accepted through accession to the 
United Nations Global Compact.  
The Code of Ethics, the Code of Conduct for Employees of the Group and the Management, 
Organization and Control Model pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 231/2001 (known as the 
231 Model) constitute the main references on compliance with the regulatory texts, in terms of 
the risk of commission of crimes (including corruption, money-laundering and usury) or of 
engagement in activities that are illegal or inconsistent with the principles of ethics. The 
general principles are reflected in the specialized legislation governing different areas in the 
form of policies, circulars and rulebooks. The Group CSR Manager provides support and 
advice  for  training  and  communication  activities  and  for  the  interpretation  and 
implementation of the principles of the Code of Ethics.  
The responsibility to manage and spread the culture of regulatory compliance, as a principle of 
integrity in corporate conduct, promoting rigorous compliance with high standards of conduct, 
is governed by the UBI Group’s1 non-compliance risk management policies incumbent on the 
organizational  units  responsible  for  Audit  (the  Chief  Audit  Executive,  a  staff  unit  of  the 
Supervisory Board) and compliance (a staff unit of the Management Board) functions.  
With particular reference to fighting money-laundering and usury, UBI Banca adopted the 
Strategic guidelines and policies governing risks connected with money-laundering and the 
finance of terrorism; the Group’s organisational regulations on fighting money-laundering and 
the finance of terrorism; and the Group’s regulations relating to usury. Management of anti-
money-laundering activities is incumbent on the Anti-Money Laundering & Claims Area that 
reports to the Chief Risk Officer under the directives provided in the document.  
The Code of Ethics and 231 Model provide specific channels and processes for identifying and 
managing unethical or illegal practices, headed respectively by the Chief Audit Executive and 
Supervisory Body provided by law. In addition, the Group’s Policy on internal whistleblowing 
systems provides a specific channel for reporting activities or events potentially constituting 
violations of the regulatory texts governing banking or financial activity. All channels subject 
whistleblowing to anonymity and provide confidentiality and protection from retaliation for 
whistleblowers. 
The Code of Ethics, due to its key role in the application of Group values and principles, in 
addition to being officially adopted by all subsidiaries, is also brought to the attention of other 
investees so that they may commit to maintaining conduct consistent with the principles 
contained in it. It is communicated to staff through the app for the consultation of internal 
regulations on the corporate intranet and in hardcopy form for companies who have no access 
to that portal. It is delivered to members of governing bodies and to newly recruited personnel, 
when a relationship is established. It is published on the Group website and it is delivered to 
all those who work with the Bank under contract or who represent the Bank, even without 
                                              
1Noncompliance  risk  management  Policies  defined  the  reference  principles  and  guidelines  for 
management of the risk of incurring court-ordered or administrative penalties, substantial financial 
losses or reputational damages as a result of violations of mandatory regulations or self-regulatory 
rules and features of the organizational compliance model. 
 
Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 
2017 Sustainability Report - Integrity in corporate conduct - Pg.26 