 
being subordinate to it. Suppliers are required to sign a declaration of acceptance as part of 
the relevant contractual arrangements. 
The Audit function, in the framework of quarterly reporting in connection with the governing 
bodies, prepares a report indicating the number of investigations carried out and the type of 
measures adopted. It also prepares an annual report on the proper operation of internal 
whistleblowing  systems  with  aggregate  information  on  the  results  of  actions  taken  on 
whistleblowing reports received.  
 
Compliance       [GRI 307-1 416-2 417-2:3 419-1] 
For reports on the findings and penalties to which UBI Banca and other companies in the 
Group have been subjected for noncompliance with the laws and regulatory texts, see the 
relevant  paragraph  of  the  Consolidated  management  report.2  No  relevant  penalties  were 
reported for 2017 other than those we have indicated. In particular, there were whistleblowing 
activities for significant noncompliance with communication processes, as provided under the 
Group's internal regulations, nor were any substantial penalties reported under the provisions 
governing  information  technology  reported  in  connection  with  product  placement  and 
investment  services.  No  cases  or  circumstances  were  reported  involving  violations  of  the 
regulations and/or codes of conduct adopted in the area of transparency for products and 
services and proper customer relations. No significant fines or penalties were applied for 
noncompliance with the environmental regulations.  
Through the appropriate whistleblowing channels, six reports were filed for violations of the 
Code of Ethics, which are pending investigation. No violations of the Code of Ethics have been 
confirmed  through  investigations  conducted  in  connection  with  reports  through  the 
whistleblowing channel. 
 
WHISTLEBLOWING REPORTS 2017 2016
Whistleblowing reports received
UBI Banca 1 10  7 
IW Bank 1  0
Total whistleblowing activities 11  7 
Whistleblowing investigations
Whistleblowing reports during the year 11  7 
Whistleblowing reports under investigation at the end of the 
1  0
previous year
Total whistleblowing reports under examination 12  7 
of which: closed on completion of the established procedure 4  6 
        -      because not relevant to the Policy 1  2 
        -      subject to appropriate management provisions 3  4 
        -     follow-up frameworks not indicated 0 0
in progress 8  1 
1 The 2016 data include five whistleblowing reports submitted to the Group's network banks 
  prior to the incorporation of UBI Banca; the 2017 data include two reports submitted to Banca
  Adriatica prior to the incorporation of UBI Banca.
 
                                              
2 Reports and Accounts 2017, Consolidated management report – Other informations 
 
Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 
2017 Sustainability Report - Integrity in corporate conduct - Pg.27 