Corporate governance and risk management 
   
The quality of the corporate governance and risk management system is a priority issue in the 
pursuit of the Group's strategic objectives. 
The following factors with reference to sustainability issues are particularly important: i) the 
expertise of the governing bodies and their ability to make planning decisions consistent with 
important  scenario  variables,  and  with  the  stakeholders'  expectations,  so  that  the 
sustainability  priorities  can  be  adequately  integrated  into  the  business  strategy  and 
operational processes; ii) implementation of adequate mechanisms for delegating authority and 
the involvement of management in strategies; iii) effective risk management, which entails, 
amongst other things, the alignment of performance measurement and incentive systems. 
UBI Banca has adopted an organisational model based on a single business unit that provides 
for centralised, synergistic performance of common service functions  and management of 
banking and financial products by the product companies, with the objectives of achieving 
excellence and optimizing the distribution force through the commercial network.  
This approach is formalised in the organisation, management, and control model pursuant to 
Legislative Decree No. 231/2001 on the administrative liability of legal persons, companies 
and associations even without a recognised legal personality. In  addition to representing 
grounds to exempt the Bank from liability in connection with the commission of certain types 
of crime and administrative offenses, this model also constitutes an act of social responsibility 
vis-à-vis the stakeholders because of the benefits that result in terms of the integrity and 
sustainability of operations. 
For effective risk management, the Group has adopted Group regulations on the integrated 
risk  reporting,  management  and  mitigation  action1  and  specialized  regulations  governing 
specific types of risk. In relation to non-financial risks, the Group adopted a Reputational risk 
management policy, which requires socially responsible conduct, monitoring and responding 
to the economic, environmental, and social expectations of all stakeholders, with the objective 
of gaining competitive advantages and maximizing returns in the long run. Where other non-
financial risks are concerned, more specifically in connection with the environmental and 
social aspects of operations, in 2018 the Group worked on a comprehensive review of the 
internal regulations with a view to making any necessary additions to them.  
 
Corporate governance       [GRI 102-18:19 102-21:29 102-33:34 405-1] 
UBI Banca has adopted a two tier governance system consisting of a Supervisory Board and a 
Management Board. The Supervisory Board performs the duties of strategic policy-making and 
supervision (including performance assessment) of the management of the Bank and is the 
highest governing body of UBI Banca. It defines the Group’s principles and ethics with its 
approval of the Code of Ethics.  
For an in-depth discussion of UBI Banca's governance system, see the Report on corporate 
governance and the ownership structure of UBI Banca SpA in accordance with Art. 123-bis 
Consolidated Finance Act, contained in the Reports and Accounts 2017.2 This report covers:  
the  structure,  composition  (more  specifically  in  connection  with  gender  diversity, 
                                              
1 The Regulations are designed to support the process of identification, measurement and monitoring on 
company risks, behavioural shortcomings and damaging events. 
2 Consolidated financial statements of the UBI Banca Group 2017, Report on corporate    governance and 
the ownership structure of UBI Banca SpA. 
 
Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 
2017 Sustainability Report - Corporate governance and risk management - Pg.33 