 
managing proposals to make unilateral changes to the terms and conditions for customers4 
and the Group product development and management policy5. The regulations are based on: 
  organisational controls overseen by the Chief Commercial Officer for management activities 
and first level controls and by the Chief Risk Officer, the manager responsible for the 
Compliance Function and the Chief Audit Executive for second level controls; 
  internal  regulations  (policies,  regulations  and  rule  books),  in  relation  to  the  relevant 
aspects of the issue; 
  technical controls consisting of dedicated support platforms for commercial activities (e.g. 
identification of customers to which determined products and services should be offered on 
basis of an analysis of their particular life cycle and behavioural profile and thus any 
unmet financial needs) and protection devices on IT systems. 
UBI Banca uses its Customer Satisfaction Unit to monitor customer satisfaction and direct the 
activities of the Group on the basis of the quality of the customer experience6. 
 
Health and safety       [GRI 416-1] 
During 2017 activities to upgrade physical security assets in branches, emergency exits and 
medical emergency alarm systems equipment continued in accordance with Legislative Decree 
No. 81/08. Particular attention has also been paid to ATM attacks, due to which new pre-
tested deterrence systems have been installed and new physical devices have been applied to 
prevent the removal of the ATM itself. Approximately 300 branches have been upgraded. In 
order to combat robberies more effectively a new remote management system for opening safes 
has been identified and tested with positive results and is scheduled for installation in 200 
branches in 2018.  
THEFTS AND ROBBERIES 2017 2 2016
(included ATM) Thefts Robberies Total Thefts Robberies Total
Events 35 25 60 64 18 82
Frequency Index1 1.6 1.7 3.3 2.8 1.1 3.9
Employees involved 0 138 138 0 179 179
1 Number of events every 100 branches.
2 Data don't include Banca Teatina.  
 
 Protection       [GRI 417-1 418-1 FS15]  
Transparency 
The Bank of Italy has issued specific provisions on the transparency of banking and financial 
operations and services. These set minimum and general standards for the preparation of the 
documentation  used  to  provide  customers  with  information  (structure  of  the  documents, 
essential  information,  choice  of  terminology,  standardisation  of  some  common  types  of 
                                              
4 The policy contains the strategic guidelines and general principals that the UBI Group intends to adopt 
for exercising the right to unilaterally change the conditions of long term contracts with customers 
(termed the ius variandi). The main provisions for the implementation of this policy are included in the 
“Regulation  implementing  Bank  of  Italy  provisions  on  the  transparency  of  banking  and  financial 
operations and services”. 
5 The policy establishes guidelines for the development and distribution of new products and the   
maintenance over time of catalogue products in order to interpret the needs and characteristics of 
intended customers accurately, consistent with the mission, strategy, business objectives and overall 
corporate architecture of the Group. 
6  Reports  and  Accounts  2017,  Consolidated  Management  Report  -  Commercial  activity,  Customer 
satisfaction. 
 
Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 
2017 Sustainability Report – Respect for customers - Pg.38 