 
contract) and they also introduce obligations for banking and financial intermediaries as well 
as for the marketing of traditional banking services of an organisational or control nature for 
compliance with regulations governing transparency and integrity in relations with customers. 
In 2017 522 complaints were received in relation to communications and information sent to 
customers, out of an overall total of 15 thousand, in line with 2016 (639). In general the 
transparency  rules  complement  those  required  by  other  areas  of  regulation  concerning 
transparency and proper conduct towards customers including, for example, those relating to 
investment services, regulated by the Consolidated Finance Law, insurance products or the 
provisions of the Consumer Code. 
 
Product responsibility 
In  this  respect  it  is  noted  that  in  the  field  of  banking  and  financial  services  product 
responsibility relates mainly to respect for the interests of customers in commercial and 
marketing practices and more broadly to the impact on customer well-being and the local 
economy. The principal relevant authorities, on the necessary assumption that the banking 
sector (including the producers and distributors of banking products and services) must take 
the needs of its customers into consideration when developing a product have issued specific 
guidelines to strengthen measures for the prevention of behavioural and operational errors in 
the management of the commercial portfolio that could cause serious damage to customers, 
with consequent negative repercussions on the relationship of trust between the customer and 
the bank and potential damage to market integrity. These provisions regulate the definition 
and implementation of suitability requirements for all banking products offered in relation to 
specific  characteristics  of  the  customer  to  whom  the  product  is  offered  and  require  the 
suitability requirements to be maintained throughout the life cycle of the product and/or the 
relationship with the customer. In this context, the principle of suitability is defined, although 
with differing areas of application, for both the producers and distributors of offered products. 
More specifically, the Bank of Italy, in line with its consumer protection commitments, has 
started the process to implement the EBA Guidelines on product oversight and governance 
arrangements for retail banking products (supranational product governance guidelines), and 
provided for them to be added to the relevant regulatory provisions governing transparency 
and proper relationships with customers advanced for consultation from 8th February 2018. 
With the entry into force of the MIFID II regulations on 3rd January 2018, similar provisions 
apply in relation to the offer and management of investment products and services. Finally, it 
should be taken into consideration that from 1st October 2018 (when the regulations relating 
to  the  Insurance  Distribution  Directive  come  into  force)  the  principles  concerning  the 
suitability of the offer to the characteristics of the customer will also apply to the overall 
management of the life cycle of insurance products. 
UBI Group has a specific Product development and management policy in place defining strict 
and explicit rules for the development and distribution of new products and the maintenance 
of existing products. The policy requires the involvement of a variety of organisational units 
using their different areas of expertise to ensure the proper and effective performance of the 
process in order to pursue objectives of quality, technological innovation, competitiveness, and 
regulatory compliance, consistent with our mission, strategy, business goals and the overall 
corporate architecture of the Group. In view of the regulatory developments specific initiatives 
are  underway  for  a  detailed  revision  and  updating  of  the  current  policy  so  that  all  the 
regulatory provisions that have already been issued or are currently being finalised. 
In developing and managing products, particular attention must be paid to reduce time to 
market and ensure that products and services are suitable for customer characteristics (e.g. 
age, profession, investment plans) and needs (e.g. financial, protection from risk), in addition 
to the adoption of organisational procedures to define: i) ways of identifying the market in 
question; ii) the product testing phase (designed to assess the market impact of new products 
in  a  variety  of  scenarios);  iii)  the  monitoring  phase  (designed  to  ensure  the  continuing 
suitability of the products for the market in question and iv) corrective actions to resolve any 
critical  issues  found  with  the  products.  The  producers  will  also  have  to  choose  suitable 
distribution channels for the specific intended markets of the products while the distributors 
will need to have sufficient knowledge of the intended markets and provide consumers with all 
the relevant information (product characteristics, risks and price).  
 
Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 
2017 Sustainability Report – Respect for customers - Pg.39 