 
information by third parties. The protection and safeguarding of personal data involves all the 
organisational  units  in  the  Group,  on  the  basis  of  their  relations  with  the  various 
counterparties and the personal information that is processed.  
Specific organisational units have been established within the Group to protect privacy. They 
are  directly  involved  in  the  issue  by,  among  other  things,  promoting  a  privacy  culture, 
providing advice to units on an individual basis, organising training courses and monitoring 
compliance with the consent granted by customers for their data to be processed. Technical 
measures are also in place in order to ensure all aspects of data security and protection, 
ensuring that corporate processes will be operational even in emergency situations (disaster 
recovery), with a series of controls and periodic tests and continuous implementation and 
improvement activities to comply with changing regulatory requirements. 
Customer protection is also implemented by providing constant customer information on the 
adoption of appropriate anti-fraud measures when using internet and mobile banking services. 
In particular, the UBI.S IT Security & Business Continuity Department, acting for the whole 
Group and all the stakeholders concerned, continuously adopts appropriate measures for the 
protection of personal data, in accordance with Legislative Decree No. 196 of 30th June 2003 
(Privacy  Code),  security  regulations  and  the  highest  standards  in  the  industry.  More 
specifically, it ensures the protection of IT systems from cyber attacks, IT Incidents, data 
breaches and fraud that could infringe the rights of interested parties. 
With  regard  to  the  acquisition  and  treatment  of  personal  data  for  commercial  purposes, 
respect for the rights, fundamental freedoms and dignity of those concerned is always ensured 
in  compliance  with  Legislative  Decree  No.  196  of  30th  June  2003  (Privacy  Code)  on  the 
protection of personal data. 
Regulation EU No. 2016/679 (the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, applicable in 
all countries of the European Union as of 25th May 2018) on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and also to the free circulation of that data, 
requires those concerned to further strengthen the protection of natural persons through the 
introduction  of  stringent  new  principles.  In  2017  specific  work  groups,  which  remain 
operational, were established to adopt and implement the requirements of the GDPR that 
impact on the technological, organisational and process measures of the Group. With this in 
view, the UBI.S IT Security & Business Continuity Department, as part of the FroG Security 
project (FroG - Framework for organisation and governance), revised and issued a Security 
Policy,  Logical  security  regulations  and  specific  Rule  books,  taking  into  account  the 
organisational  and  process  changes  within  the  Group  and  the  aforementioned  external 
regulations. 
Finally, in November, the Parent UBI Banca appointed a Data Protection Officer (DPO), the 
new professional role required by the GDPR, and established a Data Protection service within 
the Compliance Area and on the Area staff. The service reporting to the Data Protection Officer 
takes an active part in the projects of the work groups mentioned above which, among other 
things, have started to update the corporate regulations to bring them into compliance with 
the requirements of the GDPR by issuing Privacy Regulations and updating the Protection of 
privacy rule book.  
Out of all the complaints received by UBI Banca in 20177, only 47 related to privacy and 
almost all of them (34) regarded cases of mandatory reporting of personal data on credit to 
institutional data banks (central credit bureaux: Centrale dei rischi, CRIF, etc.). No formal 
irregularities were reported concerning data treatment and no events occurred which resulted 
in the theft or loss of customer data. The fall recorded is partly attributable to the fact that, 
since this year, some requests that were not classifiable as complaints have progressively and 
more correctly been reallocated to and processed by the Compliance Area as part of the project 
for compliance with the new Italian and European regulations, with the creation of the role of 
Data Protection Officer. 
 
                                              
7  Reports  and  Accounts  2017,  Consolidated  Management  Report  -  Other  information,  Complaint 
management. 
 
Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 
2017 Sustainability Report – Respect for customers - Pg.41 