 
(approximately 1.8 million customers, representing an increase of approximately 12.5% on 
2016);  
  telephone assistance (approximately 2,290,000 business contacts and a further 104,000 
“chats” per year); 
  remote selling platforms (current accounts, internet banking, debit and prepaid cards, 
loans, and non-life insurance). 
The Group is present abroad with a limited number of branches in other European countries, 
while in countries outside of Europe, the Group only has representative offices in areas of 
greater  interest  in  terms  of  international  expansion  projects  for  small  and  medium-sized 
Italian companies and a minority stake in an asset management company in China.2.  
International presence 
Munich
Luxembourg UBI BancaBranch(1) Krakow
•UBI Trustee SA
•UBI Management Co SA UBI Factor  Branch Shanghai
ZhongOuAsset Management 
Company Co. Ltd*
Antibes, Menton, Nice
UBI BancaBranches
Madrid 
UBI BancaBranch(1)  Shanghai
 Representative Office

 

 
New York Hong Kong
Representative Office Representative Office
Mumbai
São Paulo Representative Office
Representative Office

Casablanca Dubai
RepresentativeOffice Vienna Moscow Representative Office
Business Consultant RepresentativeOffice
(1)On28thApril2016UBIBancasignedacontractforthesaleof100%ofthesharecapitalofUBIBancaInternational
S.A.toEFGInternationalAG.Uponcompletionofthetransaction,MadridandMunichbranchesbecameUBIBanca
branches.
(2) Joint-ventureinwhichUBIBancaholds25%ofthetotalshare.  
Overall, the Group is present in 14 Countries, six of which are member countries of the 
European Union (Spain, France, Luxembourg, Germany, Austria and Poland) and eight of 
which are outside of Europe (U.S., Brazil, Morocco, Russia, United Arab Emirates, India, Hong 
Kong and China). Of these countries, only the United Arab Emirates, in which the group has a 
representative office in Dubai, has yet to meet international tax standards as it is on the 
Economic  and  Financial  Affairs  Council  of  the  European  Union  (ECOFIN)  list  of  non-
cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes. 
 
Dimension   [GRI 102-5 102-7:9] 
At the end of 2017, UBI Banca was Italy's number three banking group in terms of market 
cap, number four for funding, number five for lending and had the fourth largest number of 
branches. For information on the Group's economic dimension, see Reports and Accounts 
20173. 
                                              
2 Reports and Accounts 2017, Consolidated management report - Distribution Structure and Positioning. 
3 Reports and Accounts 2017, Key figures and performance indicators. 
 
Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 
2017 Sustainability Report - Profile - Pg.4 