Enhancement and well-being of personnel 
 
The digital transformation in progress in all economic sectors, particularly in the banking 
sector, entails a profound change in the business model, with a sharp acceleration in the 
digitisation of distribution processes and channels. 
Against this backdrop, the optimisation of the work force and the reduction of labour costs are 
priority objectives, as investments and activities to increase and optimise human resources, by 
attracting better talent, which is increasingly dependent not only on economic aspects of 
labour  relations,  but  also  labour  satisfaction  in  general,  which  requires  shared  values, 
opportunities for professional growth, conditions for well-being in the work place, and the 
reconciliation of private and professional life. 
Accordingly, “organisational well-being” is a significant objective of the Group, particularly 
with policies and processes designed for substantial, and not merely formal, action in terms of 
regulatory texts governing labour health and safety. This is also pursued with the knowledge 
that a competitive advantage will be achieved as a result of higher productivity and improved 
worker performance (less absenteeism and staff turnover and greater customer satisfaction), 
and that society in general will save both tangible and intangible social costs deriving, for 
example, from accidents, operating errors, legal disputes, insurance claims, litigation, and 
care expenses. The scientific literature has shown that organisational well-being is closely 
associated with factors such as the corporate climate, the commitment of employees, labour 
satisfaction and work-life balance. 
Personnel  management  is  incumbent  on  the  Human  Resources  Area, 
which  reports  to  the  Chief  Operating  Officer,  based  on  established 
processes and practices aligned with best practices at the national and 
international  levels,  although  without  formally-established  policies.  The 
Top Employer Italia certification, confirmed for 2017, acknowledges UBI Banca's excellence in 
the working conditions it offers its employees, in training and development policies at all 
corporate levels and human resource management strategies.  
On the regulatory level, conditions for employment and occupational health and safety are 
governed and treated specifically in the framework of the 231/2001 Model that provides 
special administrative formalities, controls and monitoring in connection with the hiring of 
personnel  from  third  countries  (in  connection  with  the  offense  of  employing  irregular 
immigrants) and oversight of labour health and safety. With particular reference to the latter 
topic, UBI Banca (as the Italian legislator with Legislative Decree No. 81/2008 Art. 2 (o), draws 
from the definition of the World Health Organization (WHO) according to which “Health is a 
state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease 
or infirmity”.  
In the framework of the sustainability management process, during 2018, a comprehensive 
review is planned of the corporate texts (policies, regulations and rulebooks) so that any 
requirements to include formally established policies now based on rules under contractual 
arrangements or corporate policies at the implementing level can be identified.  
 
Employment and turnover       [GRI 401-1 202-2]
During  2017,  in  a  context  characterised  by  persistent  complex  economic  and  market 
conditions, initiatives were carried on aiming to optimise efficiency and profitability and to 
reduce labour costs according to social sustainability criteria applicable to organisational and 
management operations. In fact, operations are consistently carried out under arrangements 
with the trade union organisations that provide oversight mechanisms for the redeployment of 
staff involved in reorganization plans and the use of voluntary flexible labour arrangements 
 
Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 
2017 Sustainability Report – Enhancement and well-being of personnel - Pg.50 