Trade union agreements in the area of health and safety  
in 2017, trade union activity focused primarily on finding mutually beneficial solutions to 
regulate the repercussions on personnel of substantial organizational changes deriving from 
the integration into UBI of the former network banks and the acquisition of the Nuove banks. 
This undertaking has in fact led to the need to postpone until 2018 the commitment between 
management  and  labour  to  implement,  within  the  UBI  Group,  the  agreement  signed  at 
national level in 2016 between the ABI and the trade union organisations in the credit sector 
to regulate the election of workers’ safety representatives (number, appointment mechanism 
and election) and the instruments for the discharge of their functions. Pending the signing of 
this agreement at the Group level, the worker safety representatives previously elected in the 
individual banks and companies were kept in office, including those elected in the New Banks 
and related subsidiaries. 
During 2017, an agreement was signed with the internal trade unions to regulate, as provided 
under Article of Law No. 300 on the remote supervision of workers, the adoption and use of 
various technological tools designed to ensure the safety of personnel and the protection of the 
company's assets (remote video surveillance, access control, telephone conversation recordings 
and call tracing), including new and additional robbery risk prevention tools identified as a 
result of the changes in the branch model.  
 
Professional development       [GRI 404-2:3] 
In  "banking  fairly  and  well",  UBI  Banca  supports  a  corporate  culture  oriented  towards 
customer service and simplicity, quality, innovation and ongoing improvement. These values 
are pursued even more vigorously in the framework of personnel management, where policies 
are constantly updated to ensure that they are consistent with the changing requirements of 
all  stakeholders.  In  this  context  of  evolving  approaches  and  revision  of  processes,  the 
objectives remain unchanged: optimisation of the Bank's human resources, consolidation of 
the culture  of assessment, attention to professional development and acknowledgment  of 
merit.  
  
Programs to develop skills and provide assistance in transitions  
The UBI Group adopts personnel management policies and systems designed to enhance the 
skills  acquired,  the  benefits  provided  and  the  potential  for  individual  growth  throughout 
working life. In addition to the assessment component, the Performance Management process 
includes  development  activities,  with  the  definition  of  targeted  management  and  training 
activities designed to foster personalised growth tracks reflecting the areas of improvement, 
professional objectives and the potential of each employee. 
In this framework, considering technical skills to be a strategic requirement to address the 
complex changes in progress and in compliance with the European MiFID II Standards, UBI 
Banca adopts skill certification courses, more specifically with reference to the perimeter of 
managers devoted to financial consultancy, for whom classroom and online training activities 
have been provided.  
In  2017,  the  Performance  Management  process  involved  approximately  95.5%  of  the 
company's  work  force,  with  the  exception  of  "essential  staff",  involved  with  specific 
management performance evaluation tools. 
 
Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 
2017 Sustainability Report – Enhancement and well-being of personnel - Pg.62 