UBI Academy plans initiatives for the development of managerial capacities dedicated to all 
network business functions and central structures to address the five managerial dimensions 
according  to  the  UBI  Banca  model:  relational,  managerial,  intellectual,  innovative  and 
emotional.  Under  each  initiative,  training  is  provided  to  address  the  company’s  complex 
functions and provides traditional teaching methods, individual coaching and the use of new 
tools such as Skype for business. With the aim of spreading the Quality Culture, certificate 
courses are available in specialised areas such as Compliance, Audit and Risk, as well as 
specialised financial certifications. To support persons in professional integration and growth, 
"network business role qualification" training is provided to develop the required knowledge 
and skills required for these positions, to perform these functions required for the position 
itself, combined with which knowledge reporting (used to assess competence for network 
commercial functions. 
Some training activities are related to specific projects to support the adaptation of company 
processes to new regulations. The most important training activities for 2017 involve the 
following: 
  The MiFID II Project on implementation of the European system to increase the level of 
investor protection entailing verification of the level of knowledge and skills personnel 
require  to  provide  financial  advisory  service;  UBI  Academy  has  established  dedicated 
training programme to provide a high level of training in the area of finance, to operate in 
the  best  interest  of  customers  and  to  avoid  errors  in  assessment  and  the  resulting 
economic damages to savers; 
  Organizational well-being, according to the results of an internal study on assessment of 
risk in connection with occupational stress factors, UBI Academy has provided training 
activities for employees of the central organisational units and for those of the branches, 
designed to enhance capacities for corporate communication and collaboration. 
To monitor the efficacy and quality of the training process, UBI Academy uses internal and 
external mechanisms. The training activities developed using different mechanisms entail the 
compilation  by  the  users  of  a  learning  questionnaire,  primarily  for  the  technical  and 
professional courses, that are used to assess the acquisition of training content and perceived 
quality. UBI Academy's annual objectives include achieving levels of quality perception above 
satisfactory.  A  monthly  report  is  produced  for  senior  management  on  perceived  quality 
performance for each training initiative. Appropriate remedial actions are taken for courses 
assessed to fall short of the target level. 
Depending on the identified requirements, the target for  2018 is to deliver approximately 
140,000 days of training (43% traditional classroom training, 42% distance learning and 15% 
other mechanisms: internships, on-the-job training, etc). The purpose of the training plan is to 
support execution of the 2019/2020 Business Plan and to support implementation of the new 
Distribution Model through the strengthening of skills and the spread of good practices and 
effective commercial performance; support of revenue challenges for the sales network; spread 
of the digital approach throughout the Group; development of the role of managers, which is 
essential in change and management of performance; support for professional development 
and assessment of all employees within the new business model, fostering development in the 
talents of all employees to ensure adequate levels of productivity.  
 
Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 
2017 Sustainability Report – Enhancement and well-being of personnel - Pg.66 