 
All sponsorships, including those of social value, are managed as part of an annual budget by 
the Sponsorships Function created within the Communication Area, with a selection process 
using a dedicated software application (Optimy) to ensure that this is done in a transparent 
and traceable way. The adoption of a specific set of regulations is scheduled for 2018. 
 
Dialogue with local institutions       [GRI 413-1] 
UBI Banca contributes to the promotion and dissemination of skills, mainly in the field of 
economics,  through  its  constant  collaboration  with  local  institutions:  training  institutes, 
universities1,  and  economic  organisations  such  as  Confindustria  (Confederation  of  Italian 
Industry). 
UBI Banca is involved with Alternating School Work programmes with secondary schools, 
working with students to increase their knowledge of the working world and acquire the basic 
elements of economic citizenship and financial culture. In 2017 the Group hosted over 500 
students from 26 schools in local communities. 
The  Group  built  on  its  well-established  relations  with  the  economics,  law  and  computer 
science  faculties  of  public  and  private  sector  universities  and  business  schools  In  2017, 
working with them to fund scholarships, offering services to students and providing internship 
opportunities for final year students and recent graduates. Employer branding activities are 
also intense, with the aim of enhancing the Group’s profile as an employer of choice, partly to 
support the ongoing and substantial generation turnover plan. As a result of its employer 
branding, the Group has made a slight improvement to its ranking among ideal potential 
employers, even in a context where the financial sector is becoming less attractive. Overall, 
there were approximately 30 initiatives for guiding students and graduates in their career 
choices  in  2017,  mainly  in  the  geographical  areas  where  the  Group  has  the  greatest 
recruitment needs. Over 140 young people had work placements in the company, 81 of them 
as  paid  work  experience  that  was  not  part  of  a  university  course,  mainly  in  the  policy, 
governance and control units that are most involved in significant processes of change and 
digital evolution. Twenty-five of them were recruited at the end of their work placement.  
Further investments are planned for 2018 to increase awareness of UBI Banca as an ideal 
workplace,  intensifying  employer  branding  activities  in  universities  that  have  until  now 
provided fewer recruits at a junior level and extending Alternating School Work programmes to 
offer work experience to school students in the main centres in which the Group is present. 
This is also consistent with the formalisation of a specific memorandum of understanding with 
the Ministry of Education, Universities and Research (MIUR). 
The co-operation between the Macro Geographical Areas and universities has also given rise to 
major initiatives such as the UBI Banca, why not? project with the University of Bergamo in 
the context of the “Know and interpret to control the market” business laboratory with the aim 
of looking into the reasons for customer retention among customers of the Bank and the 
reasons why the customers of other banks consider switching to UBI Banca and the “From 
information  to  strategic  and  financial  stability”  training  programme  that  aims  to  show 
economics students how a bank evaluates the credit rating of a business in practice. 
 
Actions taken for social initiatives       [GRI 201-1 415-1] 
Social  interventions,  whether  occasional  or  part  of  agreements  lasting  several  years,  are 
intended to promote and enhance the identity of the Group and reinforce its brand. The choice 
of  initiatives  to  support  takes  into  account  the  positive  impacts  they  can  generate  for 
                                              
1 the Bocconi, Cattolica, Bicocca and state universities of Milan, the universities of Bergamo, Brescia, 
Pavia, Turin, Trento and Bologna, the Insubria University of Varese, the Carlo Cattaneo University of 
Castellanza, the Polytechnic University of the Marches, the University of Verona, the LUISS and Tor 
Vergata universities of Rome, the Bocconi SDA and the Sole 24 Ore Business School. 
 
Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 
2017 Sustainability Report - Commitment to the community - Pg.73 