 
stakeholders as a whole, in terms of reducing social costs and/or increasing the economic 
development of the community. In order to achieve the maximum economic and social return 
from the amounts paid out, it is important to identify and support the best initiatives in terms 
of how well they match the areas where the Bank operates and their visibility/impact in the 
area. This leads to “collaborative growth”, aligning social intervention with business strategies 
by acting on three fronts: 
  enabling growth, involving factors such as professional training, high-quality education, 
improved  quality  of  life  and  a  reduction  in  the  problems  that  lead  to  costs  for  the 
community and social hardship 
  strengthening  demand,  involving  factors  such  as  the  size  and  quality  of  the  relevant 
markets (e.g. social housing initiatives, with actions that can support the demand for 
mortgages); 
  strengthening  the  competitiveness  of  communities,  by  encouraging  investments  and 
development activities. 
No  payments,  whether  direct  or  indirect,  are  permitted  to:  political  parties,  movements, 
political committees and other political organisations, their representatives and candidates, 
congresses or festivals with political propaganda purposes2. 
Donations are made through both the Board’s Fund (reserves of profits required for this 
purpose by the Articles of Association, some of which contribute to the assets of the Group’s 
Foundations) and part of the income from the placement of financial products, particularly as 
part  of  UBI  Comunità  initiatives.  In  addition  to  this,  sponsorships3  with  social  aims, 
associating the UBI Banca brand with organisations and events, are often an expression of 
their history and tradition in their respective local communities. 
RESERVES AVAILABLE TO UBI MANAGEMENT BODIES FOR 
2017 20162
SOCIAL PURPOSES (thousands of euro) 
Brought forward from the previous year  0 5,121
Donations made during the year1 4,189 7,139
YEAR-END BALANCE  4,583 8,772
1 Including contributions to the UBI Banca Group’s Foundations 
2 The values for 2016 have been adjusted to include the amount in the Board’s Fund that were omitted in 
  error in the 2016 report  
In 2017 the Group made donations for social initiatives in the areas where it operates totalling 
€13.7 million4 (compared to €13.9 million in 2016), including: 
  €3.0 million drawn from Articles of Association-related retained earnings reserves of UBI 
Banca available to management bodies for social purposes, net of sums paid to Group 
Foundations (€1.1 million); 
  €8.9 million as operating expenses, including donations resulting from financial products 
with a donation element (e.g. Social Bonds, Sicav Social4Future) and contributions to local 
authorities as part of treasury and collection services; 
  €1.8 million by the Foundations, which are not included within the consolidation scope of 
the Group, but are an offshoot of it. They are legally autonomous and use the resources 
they receive from the Group to contribute to the achievement of its social responsibility 
objectives in the communities where it operates. 
                                              
2   Code of Ethics, paragraph 6.6 
3  These  are  sponsorships  with  aims  of  a  social  nature.  Sponsorships  of  professional  sporting 
organisations are only included in the report if they are directed to activities to promote to the moral 
education of young people through sport. 
4   This excludes the contributions made to the Group’s Foundations (€1.6 million) and contributions in 
kind (€183 million). 
 
Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 
2017 Sustainability Report - Commitment to the community - Pg.74 