 
Following the mandatory introduction of Alternating School Work programmes as part of the 
Good School Reform (Law 107 of 13th July 2015), UBI Banca has developed a 40 hour project 
to meet the needs of schools and students who increasingly ask the Bank to become their 
educational partner and in this way contribute to the development of economic and financial 
skills among young people. The programme consists of three training days taught in the 
classroom by internal teaching staff that alternates traditional lessons and short workshops 
using group work, role play, exercises and a second workshop part in which the young people 
work in a team to deliver an enterprise project under the guidance of a teacher. In the current 
youth unemployment situation, offering programmes that stimulate an entrepreneurial spirit 
can be a value-added strategy for young people. That is why the theme of entrepreneurship 
education  was  addressed  during  the  year  by  taking  part  in  the  Ministry  of  Education, 
Universities and Research National Coalition for Entrepreneurship Education and supporting 
the Start Cup competition and the national FEDUF Che Impresa Ragazzi (“What a business 
kids!”)  competition.  Start  Cup  is  a  competition  organised  by  universities  and  university 
incubators to promote the creation of new high-potential enterprises whether they start in a 
university, are hosted by it, or are associated through a partnership. Che Impresa Ragazzi, 
now in its tenth year, is awarded to the best business plan delivered by upper secondary 
school pupils: the objective of the initiative is to develop the capacity to look at work with an 
entrepreneurial mindset. This year the first and second places in the national final in Rome, in 
the presence of the MIUR and ABI, were awarded to two enterprise projects from the UBI 
Banca  Alternating  School  Work  programme,  out  of  the  60  participants  in  the  national 
programme in the 2016-2017 school year. 
Many events were organised during the year to promote financial education. They include 
Risparmiamo il Pianeta (Let’s save the planet) and Diventare Cittadini Sostenibili, (Becoming 
sustainable citizens) which were held during Energy Week and involved a great many students 
with  the  objective  of  promoting  reflection  on  the  concepts  of  sustainable  development,  a 
sustainable economy, protecting and saving resources, cutting food waste and ethical finance. 
In the 2018/2019 school year, UBI Banca will also support the Osservatorio Permanente 
Giovani-Editori Young Factor project to promote financial and economic education for young 
people, together with Intesa Sanpaolo, Unicredit and Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena. Various 
lecture-performances have been organised throughout Italy co-operation with FEDUF, such as 
Scegli cosa voglio (Choose what I want) in Ancona, Fate il nostro gioco (Play our game) in 
Arezzo and Play Economy in Varese and Bergamo.  
The offer for students has been enriched in terms of people as well as content: a team of 70 
colleagues/teachers from across Italy who interface directly with Italian schools to promote 
financial literacy has been created. They are fellow professionals who dedicate time and energy 
to contribute to providing our young people with the necessary means to become aware, active 
and well-informed citizens. 
COMMITMENT IN FINANCIAL EDUCATION  PARTECIPAN BANK  TEACHING 
SCHOOLS CLASSES
INITIATIVES TS TEACHERS HOURS
Programs Kids, Junior and Teens                   8 0                 2 82              7,050                   6 7                 3 64
Other initiatives and events 67 182              5,137                    44                 1 17
TOTAL            147            464       12,187            111            481
 
Important initiatives were also organised at a local level by the Macro Geographical Areas:  
  the Milan and Emilia Romagna MGA developed training activities for students in line with 
the Alternating School Work programme: in co-operation with the Liceo Giuseppe Parini 
and Liceo Berchet high schools in Milan and the Istituto Taramelli high school in Pavia, 
they created the “Invito a Palazzo” initiative to show art and history in the major buildings 
of  banks  and  banking  foundations.  In  2017,  the  Vo.La.Re.  (Volunteering  Work 
Responsibility) pilot project was launched in order to build a programme of content and 
services that could be used to support those returning to the workplace and support new 
start-ups, aimed at young unemployed people and those looking for a first job;  
  the Marches and Abruzzo MGA, as well as taking part in FEDUF programmes, promoted 
the  Economix  Festival  for  the  Marches,  offering  a  varied  and  innovative  range  of 
educational experiences. It also organised the EDU FIN GAME educational quiz about the 
economy and finance for schools in the Marches; the best class in each school took part in 
 
Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 
2017 Sustainability Report - Commitment to the community - Pg.82 