 
the Regional Final in Jesi to win the “Best School in the Marches for Financial Education” 
prize. 
IW Bank also promoted various initiatives, including the Trading Road Show with the aim of 
promoting the responsible use of trading platforms and risk management processes. 
 
Access to financial services                                                        [FS14 FS7]
The Group is striving to facilitate access to financial services for disadvantaged people on the 
basis of the needs identified, with regard to both physical and sensory disabilities (ability to 
access Group branches and offices autonomously and use telephone and digital banking 
services) and situations of social and economic marginalisation. 
 
Elimination of physical and sensory barriers 
In particular, over 1,000 ATMs, amounting to approximately 50% of those installed, have been 
equipped with audio assistance. Recently-installed ATMs and those scheduled for installation 
are also equipped with audio assistance. All the Group’s Bancomat ATMs are also designed to 
use specific graphics for partially-sighted people, with significantly larger fonts than usual. 
These supports are activated by simply pressing the “5” key on the ATM number pad, which 
can be identified by touch.  
In 2017 nine new ramps, five stair lifts or elevators and fifteen conveniences accessible to 
disabled persons were installed at Group buildings and branches. 
The IT platforms for the Qui UBI and Qui UBI Affari internet banking services are continuously 
updated to comply with the main navigation requirements for partially-sighted people (e.g. 
through pages with strong colour contrast and alternative texts to accompany images) and 969 
Bancomat ATMs (38.4% of the total) are accessible for use by partially or non-sighted people. 
 
Financial inclusion 
UBI Banca has identified a series of important social causes and specific expectations of 
stakeholder groups, particularly in terms of access to financial services for vulnerable groups, 
support for nonprofit third sector organisations to carry out activities with a high social impact 
and a cautious attitude to ethically controversial sectors due to their potential negative social 
impact. This commitment to provide adequate responses is mainly put into practice in the 
commercial and credit policies and range of products and services of the Commercial Retail 
Area. 
In order to promote access to financial services for economically vulnerable groups as a 
necessary condition for their social inclusion, UBI Banca has joined the initiatives originating 
from the collaboration between the Ministry of the Economy and Finance, the Bank of Italy, 
the Italian Post Office, and payment services associations to offer low-cost basic services: the 
Ordinary Basic Account, Free Basic Account for socially disadvantaged groups and the Basic 
Account for Pensioners. 
UBI Banca has created two products to support access to credit, particularly for home buyers, 
the Flexible Mortgage, with which repayments can be rescheduled or the repayment schedule 
can be changed if certain extraordinary events occur and the Young Couples' Mortgage which 
is designed to include those who do not have a permanent employment contract. In particular, 
over 26,719 mortgages were granted in 2017 for a total disbursement of over €3 billion 
(392,111 mortgages with remaining principal debt of approximately €40.5 billion outstanding 
at the end of the year) inclusive of mortgages for young couples and “atypical” workers (such 
as those without a permanent employment contract), in addition to ordinary mortgages.  
Additionally, for employees affected by the economic crisis and company reorganisations and 
restructurings, specific agreements have been signed with Finlombarda and the Foundazione 
Welfare Ambrosiano for advances on Cassa Integrazione Guadagni in deroga (the exceptional 
state  redundancy/lay-off  scheme),  Cassa  Integrazione  Guadagni  Straordinaria  (the 
 
Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 
2017 Sustainability Report - Commitment to the community - Pg.83 