 
Commitment to the environment  
   
Protecting and respecting the environment have become global priorities in terms of the need 
to  reduce  the  impact  of  human  activities  from  the  viewpoints  of  both  pollution  and  the 
consumption of natural resources, with  particular reference to waste production and the 
emission of greenhouse and ozone-depleting gases. 
For UBI Group, managing the direct environmental impacts of our own activities, particularly 
energy consumption, is significant as both a contribution to the fight against climate change 
and a way of optimising the operating costs of the Group, while the development of green 
investment and financing products not only promotes eco-friendly economic development but 
also enables us to take advantage of new commercial opportunities and gain reputational 
advantage. 
In the context of the model of organisation, management and control pursuant to Legislative 
Decree No. 231/2001, UBI Banca has identified some sensitive activities in terms of the 
environmental crimes specified by the Decree: waste disposal, the selection of suppliers and 
management of relationships with them and the use and operation of heating and cooling 
systems. The model includes special protocols and assigns specific roles and responsibilities 
for these sensitive activities. 
The Group does not restrict itself to mere compliance with rules and regulations relating to the 
potential commission of crimes, but adopts a proactive approach to environmental protection, 
mainly in relation to the management of energy consumption. This is the responsibility of: 
  the Energy Manager and the operational Energy Management Unit at UBI Sistemi e Servizi, 
which is allocated a specific budget. The Energy Manager is responsible for analysing the 
energy requirement of the Group member companies for which it acts as a service provider, 
drawing up policies and actions to optimise consumption (including the improvement of the 
energy efficiency of buildings and systems) and monitoring their application and the results 
achieved; 
  the  Mobility  Manager,  for  activities  relating  to  the  sustainable  mobility  of  employees 
(commuting to and from work and business travel). 
The Environmental policy is scheduled for revision in 2018, as part of which the specific 
objectives to be achieved over the period of the 2020 business plan will be defined.  
 
 
Materials used       [GRI 301-1:2] 
The Purchasing Department of UBI Sistemi e Servizi manages the purchasing cycle for Group 
companies. 
The main raw materials used are paper and toner for printouts for internal use and also those 
for customers. The undertaking made by the Group to reduce consumption has continued, 
with benefits for the Bank (reduced costs), the customer (streamlined operations) and the 
environment (reduced paper consumption and travel) through:  
  the efficient management of printing, using remote monitoring of office printers, configuring 
them  for  double-sided  printing  and,  recently,  introducing  printing  on  demand  using 
personal ID cards; 
 
Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 
2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the environment - Pg.87 
 