 
resources, the elimination of waste and the use of renewable and/or low-emission energy 
sources. 
Consumption is monitored using monthly consumption progress charts drawn up for the UBI 
Sistemi e Servizi Real Estate Department (a summary of electricity consumption only is also 
submitted to the UBI Sistemi e Servizi Management Committee) and the annual reporting cycle 
of the Sustainability Report and Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). 
To reduce energy consumption and the risks associated with potential increases in energy 
costs and the introduction of more restrictive legislation governing the energy efficiency of 
buildings and installations, UBI Sistemi e Servizi has: 
  improved its design system for the construction and refurbishment of offices and branches 
bringing them into line with technological advances available on the market in three areas 
of intervention: electricity and lighting, mechanics and installations, and architecture and 
construction; 
  completed the first stage of installing the monitoring and feedback system enabling the 
continuous measurement and control of consumption, programmed load management and 
remote verification to check that installations are working; 
  replaced the air conditioning in the Brescia data processing centre with a new very high 
performance system, which save a significant amount of electricity by using a free cooling 
pump to air condition the rooms; 
  started the implementation of a monitoring and feedback system at a large building in 
Brescia to evaluate the benefits that can be achieved by using this technology in this type 
of site. 
In  the  context  of  installing  monitoring  systems  with  a  view  to  energy  efficiency,  low 
environmental impact and reducing emissions, following the adoption of a vademecum for 
energy efficiency in 2014, UBI Banca was the first bank in Italy to invest in the installation of 
intelligent domotics in its branches. The project has the two-fold aim of increasing awareness 
of energy consumption and reducing it by switching systems off intelligently. The use of 
domotics is particularly innovative because it is not limited solely to monitoring power lines, 
but also uses its own intelligence to store events, manage the loads of the main users of 
electricity in the branch using energy-saving rules and report problems in real time so that the 
immediate action can be taken.  
Installation in the first 772 branches was completed in 2017, while in 2018 the system will be 
implemented in a further 628 operating units. Once the installations are complete, domotics 
systems will be installed in all the banking Group’s branches that use a significant amount of 
electricity and connected to one of the largest cloud systems ever created, so it will be possible 
to control them remotely. The installations will also involve the branches of the New Banks.  
As well as saving energy, there are also indirect advantages from using this innovative system, 
such as for example higher safety standards at the workplace. The control centres will be able 
to recognise overloads and faults automatically outside office hours, which increases safety 
and efficiency.  
The monitoring system is currently being installed in a large building in Brescia, in order to 
evaluate the impact of this technology on energy consumption in management departments. 
As part of the periodic renewal of IT equipment, 5,056 desktops with monitors, 834 notebooks, 
135 mini desktops and 2,144 latest generation monitors were purchased that are generally 
more energy efficient than those replaced.  
 
Initiatives were undertaken to reduce the number of vehicles in circulation in the company car 
fleet and renew it with vehicles with lower consumption and emissions. 
 
 
Consolidated non-financial declaration pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 254/2016 
2017 Sustainability Report – Commitment to the environment - Pg.89 
 