environment
BEST PRACTICE
LSCT
In 2014, LSCT conducted a study with a  LSCT has also made a systematic effort 
Florence university spin-off company  to manage noise emissions, tailored to 
to  assess  the  direct  and  indirect  the dynamics of the business, the type 
impact of the terminal’s activities on the  of  service  offered,  and  the  changing 
environment around the port area. scenarios, places and equipment.
The terminal’s carbon footprint was also  Actions:
evaluated, by calculating the equivalent  • an annual campaign to measure noise
CO2 emissions from the various sources    emissions on the terminal perimeter
(direct and indirect)5. • monitoring subcontractors installing
  and maintaining anti-noise devices
The  study  considered  measurements    (silent blocks on trailers)
and estimates of noise levels and air  • research and analysis of new acoustic
quality (particulates, carbon monoxide,    devices to fit to the machines for
sulphur  dioxide  and  nitrogen  dioxide).    better performance
The study zone was mapped, first by  • installing noise-absorbing barriers
defining  various  categories  of  impact    around the operating area perimeter.
“receptors”,  then  evaluating  their 
vulnerability to the combined air-quality 
and noise components. The study team 
thus identified the most critical areas, 
devising  and  implementing  mitigation 
initiatives that also took into account the  5Even though the local impact is not significant, assessing 
the carbon footprint is important on a global level, as it 
terminal expansion project. directly affects the climate.
Regarding atmospheric-pollutant emis-
sions,  the  La  Spezia  terminal  is 
pioneering the use of a bio fixative to 
apply regularly along the roads in the 
operating areas to reduce dust volatility 
and  enable  the  aromatic  components 
in the air to decompose. Combined with 
daily sweeping of the yards and a focus 
on the likely emission sources (vehicle 
maintenance, etc.), this treatment helps 
to reduce dust production and its impact.
38