BEST PRACTICE
CONTSHIP ITALIA
PORTOLAB: A UNIQUE EDUCATIONAL EXPERIENCE
The  PortoLab  project  was  set  up  in  The  programme  opens  pupils’  eyes 
2006  to  educate  the  public  about  to  the  container  world  and  to  the 
what happens in ports and intermodal  contribution that transport makes to 
centres  and  what  it  is  like  to  work  their lives with all the things that they 
in  these  little-known,  inaccessible,  and their families use every day.
traditionally closed worlds.  The  tutors,  together  with 
Every  Tuesday  and  Thursday  from  representatives  of  many  other 
March to May, the La Spezia, Gioia Tauro,  organizations working in the ports and 
Ravenna and Cagliari maritime terminals  the  intermodal  centre  (the  customs 
and  Melzo  intermodal  centre  open  office,  finance  police,  harbourmaster, 
their gates to visiting primary-school  port  authority,  port  chemist,  etc.), 
parties.  The  children  enjoy  a  unique  enthusiastically dedicate part of their 
guided experience with an innovative,  working  lives  to  this  initiative.  Every 
stimulating approach that shows them  year, school leaders, project partners 
what people do, and the skills and values  and  the  science  educators  who  look 
that go into their work. after the teaching content join Contship 
The  container  terminal  becomes  a  for the PORTOLAB ACADEMY, to share 
workshop  to  support  the  schools’  their  personal  experience,  ideas  and 
classroom teaching. The ships’ routes  feedback on the PortoLab activities, to 
offer  a  lead-in  to  geography,  while  come up with new ways to bring the port 
the containers can be likened to the  to life, and to support the children and 
amphoras  used  to  transport  goods  schools in their learning programmes. 
back in the mists of history. Every year,  More information: www.portolab.it
over 2,000 children – armed with hard 
hats,  personalised  badges  and  high-
PORTOLAB IN FIGURES
vis jackets – visit the Contship Italia 
•	12 editions
Group  terminals  under  the  watchful 
•	22,000 pupils aged 8–10 involved
eye of the PortoLab tutors. This direct 
•	870 classes from over 110 schools
experience, backed by the stories of 
  Italy-wide
the professionals involved, helps the 
•	10,000 Contship Diaries
youngsters  discover  a  sector  that 
  distributed every year in schools
is  vital  for  the  development  of  the 
•	20 in-house tutors
communities where it operates.
5533