methodology
NOTE ON THE METHODOLOGY
  AND SCOPE OF THE REPORT
This report by Contship  is referring  with  and  direct  knowledge  of  the 
to year 2017. different categories of stakeholder.
It is an important tool to measure the  The  materiality  matrix  was  then 
Group’s performance with respect to  checked  and  further  validated  by 
environmental, social and economic  the  team  involved  in  the  reporting 
sustainability. process. 
This  report  has  been  prepared  in  The  scope  of  the  report  includes 
accordance with the GRI1 Standards:   Group companies consolidated in the 
core option and with the fundamental  financial  statements  of  the  holding 
principles of balance, comparability,  company, Contship Italia S.p.A., and 
accuracy,  clarity,  timeliness  and  operating in the maritime terminals 
reliability. of La Spezia, Gioia Tauro and Cagliari 
The  themes  included  in  the  report  and the inland logistics terminal at 
provide  a  concise  but  exhaustive  Melzo, in the province of Milan.
picture of Contship’s approach to and  To provide a more complete picture 
strategy for sustainability. The topics  of the Group, in the case of container 
were selected through a materiality  handling we decided to also include 
analysis which highlighted significant  the performance of the sea terminals 
issues relating to Contship’s activities  of  Salerno,  Ravenna  and  Tangiers, 
and stakeholders.  which  are  operated  by  Group 
The first step was to select significant  companies that are not included in the 
topics, taking into consideration the  consolidated financial statements.
context of the sector in sustainability  The  data  presented  refer  to  2017, 
terms  and  using  the  2016  Eurogate  with a comparison with one or more 
Sustainability Report as a benchmark,  previous years where this was deemed 
with  adaptations  as  appropriate  to  useful to illustrate significant trend 
draw a representative picture of the  lines. 
Contship reality. The report consists of four chapters 
The  second  step  was  to  assess  the  outlining  the  Group’s  profile  and 
significance of each topic from a dual  its  performance  with  respect  to 
perspective.  First,  the  company’s  environmental, social and economic 
perspective,  through  the  views  of  sustainability.
management.  And  second,  that  of  The annex contains a table showing 
stakeholders, through questionnaires  the  correlation  between  the  GRI 
administered to various managerial  indicators  and  the  content  of  the 
functions that have regular contacts  report.
6