 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018 
 
 
Along with the la Repubblica daily newspaper, various supplements are also published and 
distributed, and, in particular: 
  Affari e Finanza  Il Venerdì  D – la Repubblica  Trova Roma - Tutto 
G RI 102-2        Milano 
G RI 102-6  Launched in 1986 as a weekly  Launched in 1987 as a daily  The  women's  weekly  The  weekly  pocket  guides  of 
  supplement to respond to the  supplement. Over time, the  supplement was launched  Repubblica  Milano  and 
  sharp increase in demand for  publication has transformed  in  1996.  The  publication  Repubblica Roma. Available in 
  financial  and  economic  from  a  predominantly  hits  the  shelves  every  newsagents every Thursday, the 
  information  during  that  image-based daily magazine  Saturday  and  features  guides  present  the  weekly 
period.  Affari  &  Finanza  to  a  weekly  supplement  current  affairs,  culture,  highlights for each city, covering 
  focuses  on  macro-economic  that, while avoiding direct  fashion and events, social  events, culture, entertainment, 
  and  financial  analysis  and  current affairs, focuses on  trends and social change.  food and social activities. 
  reports  on  leading  national  foreign  affairs,  inquiries, 
and  international  politicians  and  celebrities, 
 
manufacturing  businesses  and culture. The publication 
  with reports and surveys. In  of Il Venerdì coincides with 
  2018 the graphic design and  the highest daily sales of la 
editorial content of Affari &  Repubblica. 
 
Finanza was redesigned. 
 
In line with the previous reporting period, in 2018 the la Repubblica newspaper continued to be 
accompanied by the magazine L’Espresso every Sunday.  
 
Furthermore, in 2018 new products relating to the title were launched or consolidated, including 
digital features, including: 
Rep:,a new mobile app designed to enable users to personalise editorial content 
in a highly innovative manner, with a selection of articles and news chosen by the 
app based on the user’s browsing history/usage. 
 
RLab,  a  new  extractable  insert  of  la  Repubblica  devoted  to  technological 
innovation, scientific research and environmental sustainability; la Repubblica has 
become  an  advocate  of  the  latter  topic  in  Italy,  running  awareness-raising 
campaigns against plastic pollution in partnership with Legambiente. 
 
RFood, a new insert dedicated to food and aimed at raising awareness of the 
importance of Italy's wine and food culture. 
 
 
Fuoricampo,  a  collection of  articles  from  leading  international 
newspapers (part of the Leading European Newspapers Alliance, of 
which la Repubblica is a member).  
 
Super8,  photographic  and  journalist  reports  on  national  and 
international current affairs. 
 
10