 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018 
 
Periodicals and Guides 
GRI 102-2 
GRI 102-6 The National Press division includes the following periodicals and guides:   
 
 
  L’Espresso  Mind  National Geographic and 
L'Espresso  was  founded  in  1955,  Launched  in  2018  as  the  evolution  of  National Geographic Traveler 
 
marking the start of the Group that  Mente & Cervello, the new psychology and 
Italian edition of the famous American 
bears  its  name.  It  is  a  weekly  neuroscience monthly magazine discusses 
  magazine established in 1888, launched in 
magazine  covering  culture  and  life, conflicts, emotions and relationships. 
February 1998. Focuses on geography in 
politics,  representing  a  point  of  Affiliated with the German (Gehirn und 
  the broadest sense of the term, with a 
reference  for  widespread  and  Geist), US (Scientific American Mind) and 
particular  focus  on  high-quality 
important sectors of Italian public  French (Cerveau et Psycho) editions. 
  photography. Traveler features journeys 
opinion.  
that readers could take, sometimes of a 
  particularly  adventurous  nature,  but 
always focused on the discovery of new 
  experiences. 
 
 
 
Le Scienze  MicroMega  Limes 
The  Italian  edition  of  Scientific  Launched in 1986, MicroMega is the  Limes, the Italian geopolitics magazine, 
 
American published its first issue in  magazine of the democratic left and  was founded in 1993 to become one of 
  September 1968. It covers the most  Italian liberalism. A cultural and political  the most influential and authoritative 
recent advances across all of the  point of reference, it has long played an  mouthpieces of geo-political reflection.  
  scientific  disciplines,  from  physics  important role in Italian political debate 
and  biology  to  medicine,  with  a  strong  anti-party  politics, 
  environment science, geology and  legalistic and secular identity.  
cosmology. 
 
 
Published each year, le Guide di Repubblica haves a strong local focus and occupy a position on the 
 
market with a pronounced link to the region, describing local sights, sounds and smells in the la 
Repubblica style. 
 
  For more than 40 years, la Guida dell’Espresso has presented photographs of Italy's 
vibrant and varied restaurant culture, a sector that constantly consolidates and 
 
embellishes its strengths while diversifying and modernising. 
 
12