 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018 
 
Radio  
GRI 102-2 
In the last thirty years, GEDI has developed its activities in the radio sector and the Radio division 
GRI 102-6 
  currently includes the Group's three national radio stations, Radio Deejay, Radio Capital and m2o. 
Based  on  the  RadioTer  data  for  2018,  the  Group’s  three  stations  continue  to  record  good 
listenership results: Radio Deejay confirmed its position among the leaders in the radio market, 
with 5 million listeners on an average day, while Radio Capital and m2o both reported an audience 
of 1.6 million listeners. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Radio Deejay  Radio Capital  m2o 
  Founded in 1982 by Claudio Cecchetto,  Launched  in  the  mid-eighties  and  Acquired by the Espresso Group in 1998 
the station was acquired by the Espresso  acquired by the Espresso Group in  under its former name Italia Radio, the 
Group in 1989. Linus has acted as artistic  1997, Radio Capital has an average  station was restyled and relaunched as 
 
director since 1994. With an average of 5  global  listenership  of  1.6  million  m2o in late 2002 to become a dance music 
million daily listeners (RadioTer survey  people  per  day  (RadioTer  survey,  station  aimed  exclusively  at  a  young 
  for 2018), it is an established leader in the  2018). The station has long been a  audience. Since 2010 it has expanded its 
entertainment  sector  and  offers  a  point  of  reference  for  music  musical range to include hit tracks while 
  plethora  of  successful  programmes  enthusiasts with a preference for the  maintaining the high-energy appeal that 
presented by well-known personalities  classic  tracks  of  the  seventies,  has always characterised the station. With 
such as Linus, Nicola Savino, Fabio Volo,  eighties and nineties, and combines  an average daily listenership of 1.6 million 
 
Alessandro  Cattelan,  il  Trio  Medusa,  music with entertainment and news  people  (RadioTer  survey,  2018)  m2o 
Albertino,  La  Pina,  and  Luciana  reports  delivered  live  by  Vittorio  boasts  a  unique  identity  in  the  radio 
 
Littizzetto,  Rudy  Zerbi,  Fabio  Caressa,  Zucconi.  Since  September  2018,  industry and is the only station able to 
Ivan Zazzaroni at the weekend. In January  under the management of the new  develop close affinities with young people 
 
2018, Fiorello returned to the airwaves of  director  Massimo  Giannini,  long- while also appealing to older listeners. 
Radio Deejay after 26 years with the new  established  columnist  of  la  Since the end of 2018 the artistic director 
 
daily show Il Rosario della sera. It is the  Repubblica and TV pundit, the station  of m2o has been Albertino, one of radio's 
radio station that drives musical trends,  has  developed  a  new  editorial  best-known  personalities.  His  musical 
 
representing  the  launchpad  for  tracks  approach  aimed  at  optimising  the  expertise,  ability  to  spot  trends  and 
that go on to become successful hits  news component - which has been  unique  delivery,  combined  with  his 
 
played  by  other  radio  stations.  The  expanded and is now also broadcast  profound  understanding  of  public 
station also has an active online presence  at  weekends  -  balanced  with  a  opinion,  affords  the  station  an 
 
and was the only Italian radio station to  consistent  focus  on  high-quality  authoritative and respected voice while 
feature among Audiweb's top 100, with a  music as the broadcaster’s key value.  guaranteeing attention to detail, quality, 
  strong presence on social media. As has  creativity and innovation. 
always been the case, it has a strong 
 
relationship with the community thanks 
to events that place the radio station in 
  direct contact with the audience. Source: 
Radio Ter survey, 2018 
14