Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
 
   
2000 to present   2007   Repubblica launches the new R2 section with investigations, dossiers and 
reports; L’Espresso updates its cover and graphic design. 
2010   The Group’s digital offer is enriched with new products and the websites of 
L’Espresso and the local newspapers are redesigned. 
2011   The  sections  of  Repubblica.it  dedicated  to  economics  and  finance  are 
redesigned and the journalistic coverage of the website is extended to 24 
hours a day; video production is increased; finally, specific products are 
created for tablets and smartphones.  
2012   Huffington Post Italia is set up, a joint venture between AOL and the Group. 
2014   The Group concludes the integration of digital terrestrial network operator 
activities with Telecom Italia Media and refinances the company through the 
placement of a five-year convertible bond. 
2015   The  Group  strengthens  its  leadership  at  digital  level  and  Repubblica.it 
consolidates its position as Italy’s leading news site and one of the most 
authoritative at international level. 
2016   The Espresso Group and ITEDI (publisher of La Stampa and Secolo XIX) sign 
an agreement for the merger of the two companies, aimed at creating a 
leading Italian publishing group. 
2017   The Group finalises the merger agreement between GEDI Gruppo Editoriale 
and ITEDI Italiana Editrice, the parent company of the newspapers La Stampa 
and  Il  Secolo  XIX.  Repubblica’s  new  premium  digital  product,  Rep,  a 
subscription-based news website, is launched. 
2018  Numerous projects are launched to strengthen and redevelop the online 
presence of the Group's brands. Repubblica ha lanciato una nuova app e ha 
sviluppato la produzione di contenuti esclusivi digitali. GNN expands the 
membership project to all of its local newspapers and all of the websites are 
redesigned. La Stampa launches TopNews, a new weekly subscription service 
to a selection of digital content. Radio Capital and m2o undergo significant 
transformations with respective new editorial and artistic directors. Infine, 
in corso d’anno è stato lanciato, in collaborazione con National Geographic, 
il nuovo trimestrale Traveler. 
   
17