 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018 
 
the publishing sector, relevant studies and publications and the topics covered by Legislative Decree 
no. 254/16. Following this analysis, modifications to the topics identified in the previous table were 
put forward.  
 
The identified topics were then evaluated by the management team during an internal workshop 
aimed at understanding the Group's position in relation to each topic.  
In order to further develop stakeholder engagement, in 2018 a specific stakeholder engagement 
initiative was launched to collect opinions on issues of sustainability relative to the Group. As part 
of this initiative, an ad hoc questionnaire was sent to the public, aiming to stimulate debate on the 
Group's approach to sustainability and identify stakeholder expectations regarding GEDI's activities. 
The participants made a significant contribution to identifying the main impacts that the Group’s 
activities have on the various stages of the value chain.  
These internal and external analyses made it possible to identify the material aspects, namely those 
that have significant impacts for the organisation from an economic, environmental and social 
perspective, and which substantially influence stakeholder assessments and decisions. Indeed, 
combining a strategic business approach with stakeholder expectations is key to enabling the Group 
to continue to generate shared value in the short, medium and long term. The analysis was carried 
out in compliance with the criteria defined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards). For 
more details on the reconciliation of GEDI’s materiality aspects to the GRI Standards, refer to the 
table in Annex 1. 
In line with previous years, the material topics relate to five key areas: Economic and Business 
Responsibility, Governance and Compliance, Product Responsibility, Responsibility to Employees 
and  Environmental  Responsibility.  The  priorities  expressed  both  by  the GEDI  Group  and  by 
stakeholders are processed and represented in the Materiality Index below: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20