Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
 
•  Analysis of risk mitigation factors and consequently the residual risks to which the Company 
is exposed; 
•  Presentation of the results of these actions to the Control and Risk Committee for review 
and preliminary discussion, prior to the presentation of the same to the Board of Directors. 
The aforementioned activities are carried out according to the guidelines of the ERM - Enterprise 
Risk Management framework published by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the 
Treadway Commission (COSO report). 
 
In addition to the risks identified in the Group's “Annual Financial Report”, with regard to the topics 
covered by Articles 3 and 4 of Italian Legislative Decree no. 254/16 such as environmental, social 
and staff-related topics, human rights and the fight against active and passive corruption, GEDI has 
also identified the following critical topics: 
•  Topics relating to staff.  Following the tightening of the market, the reorganisation of 
corporate and organisational structures and changes to the scale of the workforce, the risk 
of strained relations between the company and trade unions has emerged, resulting in 
strikes and/or negatively impacting the work organisation. In order to maintain an open 
and transparent dialogue with employees and freelance associates, develop relations and 
support employees and journalists, the Group has implemented various concrete actions 
regarding the planning and management of resources, such as solidarity programmes and 
welfare policies.  
Risks related to staff management were also identified, particularly as regards the selection 
process, regional distribution, and the lack of flexibility and mobility of resources. To 
mitigate these risks, the Human Resources Department has taken steps to improve the 
recruitment criteria and provide the necessary training to its employees to promote 
mobility.  
•  Social topics and human rights. One of the main risks identified was the possibility of non-
compliance or inadequate observance of legislation regarding occupational health and 
safety, with specific reference to training and equipment. To mitigate this risk, the Group 
has developed specific action plans to periodically monitors training and health check 
activities. Two specific operating protocols in line with Model 231/2001 were also defined.   
Furthermore, the risk of non-compliance with legal provisions regarding privacy and the 
processing of personal data, advertising regulations and copyright, which could expose the 
Group to the risk of sanctions and civil or criminal liability, was also evaluated. As well as 
appointing the Group Data Protection Officer (DPO), GEDI has defined actions and plans to 
constantly monitor regulations and reference case law, formulating guidelines and codes 
of conduct and providing specific training to employees. 
•  Fight against active and passive corruption. To avoid the risk that the control systems for 
the management of conflicts of interest (Related Parties) are inadequate and to continually 
monitor the Group's management of this issue, GEDI has adopted a specific procedure for 
the management of related party transactions.  
•  Environmental topics. The risk of non-compliance with environmental protection laws is 
mitigated by the presence of an internal structure and the appointment of external 
25