Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
 
Training provided on 231 and anti-corruption 
GRI 205-2 The Group provides general training on issues pertaining to the 231 Model for its employees and 
more specific training for employees that work in specific risk areas, the supervisory body and those 
responsible for the internal audit. The content and frequency of the training courses are defined on 
a case by case basis, and checks are also carried out on attendance levels and the quality of the 
content of the courses. Participation in training courses is compulsory. In 2018, a total of 2,550 
hours of anti-corruption training were provided, involving 36 executives and 814 workers.  
Specifically, in 2018 the Group implemented a specific online training programme for 231 topics, 
including in view of the amendments made to the Organisational Models of Group companies.  
Topics regarding the updates to the 231 Model and the appointment of the Supervisory Bodies of 
Group companies were subject to specific resolutions by the relevant administrative bodies and 
were notified to employees. 
 
The Group promotes the awareness and observance of the Model among consultants, various types 
of freelance associates, business contractors and their employees, self-employed workers who 
work for the Group, customers and suppliers. 
GRI 102-16  The Code of Ethics and its distribution 
GRI 103-1 
GRI 103-2  The Code of Ethics is the set of ethics/behavioural rules that are transmitted to all employees on an 
GRI 103-3 
ongoing basis, the consistent application of which is continuously monitored, which clearly and 
transparently defines the set of values that inspire the Group for the achievement of its objectives. 
Therefore, the activities of all Group companies must comply with the principles expressed by the 
Code. GEDI Gruppo Editoriale S.p.A. recognises the importance of ethical and social responsibility 
in the management of its business affairs and activities, and is committed to respecting the 
legitimate interests of its stakeholders and the general public. At the same time, it asks its 
employees and those who work within the Group companies to comply with the company’s rules 
and the tenets established in this Code. 
The Group has made a formal commitment to promoting awareness of the content of the Code of 
Ethics and the applicable company processes amongst all employees: all new employees are given 
a copy of the Code of Ethics. A similar awareness-raising activity on the values and principles 
expressed in the Code of Ethics is carried out among freelance associates, suppliers and customers 
of all types. 
27