 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018 
 
The media industry and the Group business model 
The business model and strategy 
GEDI has decided to concentrate its efforts on a strategy developed around four main points: 
•  focus on development by strengthening the traditional business with ongoing revisions of 
its publishing products, but also taking advantage of all new opportunities that the market 
may offer; 
•  expanding and improving the content offering of its brands on new digital platforms, taking 
the industry’s ongoing evolution towards digital into close consideration; 
•  affirming its position within the advertising market in accordance with the guidelines put 
in place by the internal agency; 
•  maintaining the company's profitability within the context of a global recession which has 
negatively impacted turnover, focusing on costs and corporate reorganisation;  
•  delivering additional benefits resulting from the merger with the ITEDI Group, leveraging 
scale, unparalleled local presence and Group synergies; 
•  consolidating/strengthening the Group’s presence in the radio sector. 
 
The digital evolution  
G4 M6  In recent years the media industry has experienced a pronounced shift towards digitalisation. In 
response to this and to meet the new requirements of its users in the most effective way, since the 
2000s GEDI has gradually embarked on a digital evolution that encompasses the development of 
new products, company processes and the organisation’s day-to-day activities.  
 
In 2018, GEDI’s Digital Division structured research and development activities into five main 
projects:  
1.  Digital products and platforms. In the context of its activities on the new digital platforms, 
in 2018 the development phase was completed and the new native digital product Rep: was 
launched, reaching 30 thousand subscribers in the first 12 months. Furthermore, a new 
Repubblica app was launched, Cubo, bringing together the subscription-based real-time 
news  update  site  Rep:,  R+  and  the  Video  section.    The  Premium  sites  of  the  local 
newspapers were completed redesigned and optimised for smartphones, with the launch 
of the subscription-based platform Membership Noi and TopNews on La Stampa.  
2.  Video. In terms of video, GEDI has continued to distribute and monetize the Group's video 
content on YouTube and Facebook. Furthermore, a centralised management approach was 
adopted for the video content of La Stampa and the local newspapers of the GEDI News 
Network (GNN).  
3.  Technological  projects  and  funding.  From  a  technological  standpoint,  GEDI's  Digital 
Division has approved the funding by Google/YouTube for the GNI project (Google News 
Initiative)  for  live  video  streaming.  In  partnership  with  LENA  (the Leading European 
Newspaper Alliance), the Group has also been granted access to funding from the European 
28