Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
 
Parliament for journalistic activities aimed at discovering how the Union impacts our 
everyday lives and exploring its presence in Member States. 
4.  Innovative payment methods. The new payment system SWG (Subscribe with Google has 
been implemented to provide a simplified payment platform for Premium content in 
addition to the existing platform with Facebook. 
5.  Data Lake. In partnership with the advertising concessionaire Manzoni, GEDI has launched 
a project to implement a Group Data Lake to enable integrated data management for 
advertising and editorial purposes. 
 
To combat disinformation and “fake news”, la Repubblica and La Stampa have joined other 
international newspapers in applying the criteria of the Trust Project to promote fact-checking and 
offer objective criteria to help readers assess the quality of information. 
 
Digital: significant results achieved in 2018  
 
 
  Number of Users  App use  
 
GEDI continues to pursue innovation and technological 
  With an average of 5.04 million unique users on an 
development. In this regard, the new Repubblica App 
average day and 25.5 million unique users a month on 
 
was launched, uniting all of Repubblica's “free” and 
its sites (new Audiweb survey, average figures for 
  “premium” content (Repubblica.it, Rep,:, Rep TV, R+) in 
April-November  2018),  GEDI  is  the  sixth  biggest 
  operator on the entire Italian digital market (including  a  single  place  and  complementing  Repubblica’s 
smartphone functionality which receives an average of 
  service  providers  and  platforms  like  Google, 
1.9 million users per day and 15.6 million users per 
Facebook, WhatsApp, Amazon, etc.). 
 
month  (new  Audiweb  survey,  average  for  April-
  November 2018). GEDI has also renewed its aim to reach 
The  digital  editions  of  the  Group's  publications, 
  including la Stampa and Il Secolo XIX, had an average  more readers across multiple platforms. 
  total of 63.1 thousand subscribers in 2018. 
Social media use  
 
Repubblica.it confirmed its position as the leading 
 
Italian news website with 2.94 million unique users  Repubblica is still the leading Italian daily in number of 
  on an average day, representing a lead of 26 % on the  followers on Facebook (3.7 million), Twitter (2.8 million) 
second biggest news website (new Audiweb survey, 
  and Instagram (500,000) and is a global leader in reader 
average figures for April-November 2018). 
engagement. 
 
  The websites La Stampa.it and Il Secolo XIX.it of the 
The  year  2018  saw  further  reinforcement  of  the 
  GEDI News Network recorded an average Total Digital 
positions  of  the  Group’s  brands  on  social  media 
Audience of 997,200 unique users on an average day 
  networks: currently the pages of GEDI have over 32 
(Audiweb average for April-November 2018). With 
  regard to the brands of the Local Newspapers of the  million followers on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. 
  GEDI News Network, the sites collectively recorded 
an average Total Digital Audience of 607,000 unique  Deejay has 2.2 million fans on Facebook and 2.3 million 
 
users on an average day, predominantly composed of  followers on Twitter.  
  mobile traffic (Audiweb average for April-November 
  2018). 
 
 
 
In 2018, many new experimental, innovative and social publishing initiatives were successfully 
launched on Repubblica.it, including: 
 
- Web series, such as “Cronache di un sequestro”, 10 episodes about the kidnapping and murder of 
Aldo Moro; the audio series “Veleno”, a podcast about the children of Bassa Modenes who were 
29