Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
 
The Code of Ethics, the values of the newspaper and its commitments to the readership and public 
opinion are available on the La Repubblica website. 
 
GRI 102-12  Industry regulations and codes of practice 
GEDI operates in a highly regulated environment whose regulatory framework is continuously 
evolving. With the goal of operating correctly, the Group pursues its mission in complete 
compliance with the laws that regulate the publishing and journalism industry, and most 
significantly: 
• Law no. 47/1948 (“Press regulations”); 
• Law no. 416/1981 as amended (“Regulations for publishing houses and publishing grants”); 
• the Founding Law of the Order of Journalists of 1963; 
• Law no. 28/2002, “Provisions for equal access to the information media during electoral and 
referendum campaigns for political communications”, on the so-called “par contactless” act 
of 2000. 
 
As well as legal provisions, there are also other reference criteria - such as the Codes of Ethics 
adopted by the Order of Journalists - which contain ideals that help balance press freedom and 
the right to report news with the other fundamental rights of individual persons (such as the 
privacy of information and image rights) and society (right to be informed comprehensively and 
impartially): 
• the Code of Professional Conduct (1998) regarding the processing of personal data in 
journalism activities, pursuant to the laws in force in Italy in the area of privacy; 
• the Treviso Charter on the protection of minors (adopted by the National Council of the 
Order of Journalists in 1990 and updated most recently in 2006 with the observations of the 
Italian Personal Data Protection Authority); 
• the Journalists’ Charter of Duties (1993) which covers issues such as responsibility, 
correction and reproduction, the presumption of innocence in criminal inquiries and during 
trials, sources, information and advertising, incompatibility, minors and disadvantaged 
parties; 
• the Charter of Information and Surveys (1995) which establishes the methods and 
techniques of presenting opinion polls. 
 
To maintain intact and strengthen the truthfulness and independence of information, the “La 
Repubblica”  Code  of  journalists’  rights  and  duties  (otherwise  defined  as  the  “Charter”)  is 
particularly important within the Group and, since 1990, has been enclosed, together with the Code 
of Ethics, with the letter of hire given to every one of the newspaper’s journalists.   
The text lays out the basic ethical duties of journalists and outlines the fundamental values that 
underpin the independence of journalistic activities, the freedom from all influence and the 
attention focused on those in need.   
La Repubblica’s journalists are committed to rejecting any political, economic or ideological 
interference, irrespective of its source: entities, institutions, public or secret associations, public or 
private companies or lobbyists. Journalists make a commitment to avoiding carrying out activities 
that may impact the objectivity and comprehensiveness of information, such as working in press 
offices, consultancy, promotions and public relations. Journalists also make a commitment not to 
accept compensation or donations from people, companies, entities, political parties, religious 
organisations, trade unions and financial and opinion groups they may come into contact with in 
37