Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
 
Relations with the financial community 
GEDI takes steps to establish and maintain an effective dialogue with its shareholders and the 
market, using various forms of communication such as the presentation of company and Group 
results at shareholders’ meetings, meetings with financial analysts and institutional investors in 
Italy and abroad, the circulation of press releases to the general public and presentations by making 
the  corporate  documentation  envisaged  by  legislation  available  on  the  company  website. 
Furthermore, GEDI observes the principles of the Market Disclosure Guidelines and has appointed 
a head of the Investor Relations unit to handle the flow of information addressing the shareholders, 
the financial analysts and institutional investors, in observance of the rules established for the 
disclosure of Company information and documents.  
With reference to the risks regarding the management of information, GEDI has adopted a 
procedure for the handling and disclosure to the public of confidential documents and information, 
with particular reference to so-called “insider information”; this procedure was updated on 27 June 
2017 and is available on the company website www.gedispa.it in the “Governance” section. 
GEDI has also established and implemented the Register of individuals who have access to insider 
information (“Register”), which records the individuals who, due to their work or professional 
activities, or in relation to the roles performed, have access to insider information. This Register 
was amended during the period and introduced ex novo as per the procedures set out under Art. 
18 MAR, subsequent to EU Regulation no. 596/2014 coming into effect. The procedures for keeping 
the Register are contained in the Code of Conduct in the Report on corporate governance and the 
ownership structure, under “Internal Dealing”, while the list of people that have access to insider 
information is available on the Company website www.gedispa.it in the “Governance” section. The 
Company has appointed the “Corporate Service” office as the body responsible for keeping the 
Register. 
It is noted that in November 2018, GEDI entered into the STAR segment of Borsa Italiana (segment 
for  securities  with  strict  requirements  in  terms  of  transparency,  liquidity  and  corporate 
governance). With this request, the Group, which already has a corporate governance system in 
line with the highest international standards, is working towards further developing its relationship 
with the financial market, offering greater visibility of its corporate initiatives, with the aim of 
enhancing the Company’s value. 
 
Responsible advertising and marketing 
GRI 102-12 Through its agency (A.Manzoni & C.), the Group is committed to applying virtuous models of 
GRI 102-13 advertising communications. 
GRI 417-3 
The Group has adopted the rules laid out in the Italian Code of Commercial Communication Self-
Regulation, and therefore does not accept any messages contrary to the dignity and the interest of 
people. As a result, those responsible for advertising sales conduct monitoring to prevent the 
publication of false advertising information regarding commercial products, messages that incite 
physical and moral violence, which promote racism or offend the moral, religious or civil convictions 
of citizens, or which contain elements that could mentally, morally or physically harm minors. The 
Group does not accept advertising that may provoke gambling or the abuse of alcohol, tobacco or 
any type of drug, and rejects any advertising containing pornography.  
 
39