 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018 
 
 
 
  Dynamo Camp 
The Dynamo Camp fund-raising campaign was been supported by 
  Radio Deejay for the tenth consecutive year, in partnership with 
Radio Capital. A radio marathon was dedicated to the event with 
 
special guests and interviews. Listeners could donate € 2 by 
sending a text message to a charity number or calling from a 
 
landline to help offer seriously ill children the opportunity to 
spend a free holiday at the Dynamo Camp. The fund-raising 
 
activities were supported by a charity auction organised by the 
Dynamo  Camp  Non-Profit  Organisation  in  collaboration  with 
 
Radio Deejay. 
 
Repubblica@Scuola  is  a  free  educational  project 
  promoted  by  Repubblica.it  and  offered  to  Italian 
students and secondary schools. The concept revolves 
 
around  the  concept  of  “the  school  that  I  want”  and  is 
  implemented  in  a  variety  of  ways:  editorial  activities: 
competitions,  incentives  and  partnerships;  the  intra-school 
  newspaper edited by students and the lectio magistralis of 
Repubblica. The initiative aims to help young people to improve 
  their writing skills, encouraging them to contribute to the group 
work and stimulate debate with other schools. By actively 
 
participating in Repubblica@Scuola, students can earn school 
credits. Launched in 2000, it is the first and largest platform 
 
designed for the publication of content for schools. Over the 
course of its eighteen-year history, the project has seen more 
 
than 10 million subscriptions and over 530,000 publications 
produced by students in the last 9 editions.  
 
In the 2017/2018 academic year, 234,537 students, 10,584 teachers and 2,036 schools took part in the project. 
 
Students who sign up to the project can write articles, take part in competitions, interact with other students and 
improve their writing, photography and design skills. Moreover, schools participating in Repubblica@Scuola are 
 
able to offer their students the opportunity to write for genuine online school newspapers. 
Since 2017, Repubblica@Scuola has supported the “School-Work” project promoted by MIUR in an exceptionally 
 
innovative way. For the first time, students are offered the opportunity to explore how a publishing group 
  operates without the need to be physically present in the news room. Instead, students can put themselves to 
the test by exploring the possibilities offered by the digital world and experiment with working remotely. This 
  enables students who live in geographically remote locations to gain a deep understanding of a leading 
entrepreneurial enterprise. 
  In 2018, Repubblica@Scuola was a partner in the organisation of Atlante 2018 - Italian Teacher Award, the first 
competition dedicated to the best educational projects implemented by primary and secondary school teachers. 
 
Over 700 teachers took part in the initiative. 
 
  Il  Secolo  XIX  -  Newspaper  in  the 
Classroom 
 
Finally, the project launched by the newspaper 
  Il Secolo XIX aimed at schools was continued, 
concluding each year with an awards ceremony 
  involving the numerous schools participating in 
the event, with prizes offered by the initiative's 
  sponsors. 
46