Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
 
 
                Breakdown of Group employees by age and professional level (2018) 
  
 
Manual workers 
Office workers 
Journalists 
Executive 
 
In line with the recruitment policies adopted by GEDI, aiming at establishing stable working 
relationships with its employees, the vast majority (98%) of workers are employed on permanent 
contracts. 
 
Talent attraction and retention 
GRI 401-1 
  The turnover rate for employees was 2.29 % and 4.99% respectively for employees entering and 
leaving the company, determined mainly by temporary replacements and by retirements or people 
leaving the Group. Nonetheless, the rate of voluntary dismissals is very low at approximately 0.82%. 
As regards initiatives for attracting talented individuals who wish to embark upon a publishing 
career, there are a number of well-established projects based on multi-year relationships with 
universities, journalism schools and other institutions or associations.  
Among these is the relationship with Fondazione Mario Formenton, which offers an opportunity 
to meet ambitious, deserving young people who wish to begin working in the publishing industry. 
The Foundation offers study grants connected with the worlds of journalism and management. The 
winners are offered a training position or a specialisation and completion placement with the goal 
of introducing them to the world of work in both journalistic and administrative roles.  
 
Industrial relations 
GRI 102-41 Industrial  relations  with  trade  union  organisations  have  always  been  focused  on  proactive 
GRI 402-1  collaboration with respect for the various roles. Over the course of the year, in the context of a 
difficult economic scenario both for the country as a whole and the sector in particular, important 
agreements have been reached with trade unions, including agreements to establish company 
welfare policies. Furthermore, in line with previous years 100% of the Group’s employees were 
covered by collective bargaining agreements in 2018. 
 
 
49