 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018 
 
Diversity and equal opportunities 
 
GRI 405-1   
GRI 405-2 
The Group undertakes to avoid all forms of discrimination based on age, 
gender, sexuality, state of health, race, nationality, political opinion, religious 
beliefs, in all decisions that impact the relations with its stakeholders (extract 
from the Group Code of Ethics). 
 
 
GEDI pays close attention to the respect for diversity and equal 
opportunities in its recruitment of new employees, rejecting all 
discriminatory  practices  and  recognising  the  skills  of  each 
individual irrespective of nationality, religion or gender. 
GEDI’s management and enhancement of human capital has 
always been focused on integration and respect for diversity. 
Relations amongst employees take place in accordance with 
provisions to protect people’s rights and freedoms and the 
core  principles  that  affirm  equal  social  dignity,  with  no 
discrimination  based  on  nationality,  language,  age,  gender, 
ethnic  background,  religious  beliefs,  political  and  union 
memberships or physical or mental condition.  
Women make up 37% of the workforce with the highest percentage amongst office workers at 46%. 
The breakdown of the workforce is impacted by some of the specific work carried out within the 
Group, particularly in the printing industry, and a tradition in which there has historically been a 
predominantly male presence within the specific work category, as in the case of preparation and 
printing processes, which take place at night. The Group’s 878 women employees work primarily 
on the editorial teams as well as in the administrative and sales areas.  
In  order  to  promote  equal  opportunities,  employees  are  offered  different  contracts  as  an 
alternative  to  standard  full-time  contracts,  promoting  concrete  initiatives  to  facilitate  the 
management of the work-life balance. 97% of the workforce are hired on full-time contracts, while 
the remaining 3% work part time. Women represent 91% of part-time employees. 
GEDI is also committed to supporting the hiring of underprivileged people, in recognition of the 
value of diversity and the importance of interaction between different groups in any activity. The 
Group also supports the integration of certain groups, such as disabled employees. In total, the 
Group employs 82 people belonging to protected categories, 89% of which are office staff and 11% 
are manual workers.  
 
50