Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
 
The remuneration policies are aimed at ensuring competitiveness on the labour market in line with 
the growth and loyalty retention objectives for human resources, as well as differentiating the 
remuneration instruments on the basis of individual expertise and skills. There are also slight 
differences between the average wages of men and women within the same employee category. 
Ratio of basic salary and remuneration between women and men (2018) 
Ratio of average gross  Ratio of average total 
 
salary of women/men  remuneration of 
2018  women/men 2018 
Executives  0.66  0.62 
Journalists  0.83  0.79 
Office 
0.89  0.81 
workers 
Manual 
0.89  0.87 
workers 
*This figure excludes the General Managers and Head Office Directors of the various companies 
Enhancement and development of skills 
The GEDI Group has implemented training programmes aimed at supporting and enhancing the 
GRI 404-1 
  development and expertise of human resources. Training requirements are evaluated based on 
periodic discussions with employees, sector managers and the Human Resources Department.  
In 2018, continuing the trend of previous years, the Group implemented transversal training 
courses  focusing  on  the  issues of  anti-corruption  in  the  context of the 231  Model  and on 
occupational  health  and  safety.  Furthermore,  training  activities  aimed  at  implementing  and 
developing administrative and management skills in response to changes to legislation were 
organised, with specific focus on privacy and administrative reporting, while training courses for 
foreign languages and IT skills were also continued. In this regard, specific courses for journalists 
operating in regional editorial offices were launched in order to develop skills and synergies with 
other Group companies. As in previous years, the usual professional training courses were offered 
to journalists. In 2018, GEDI provided its employees with a total of 8,490 hours of training.  
The table below shows total hours of training subdivided by gender and professional level. 
Hours of training provided to Group employees by gender (2018) 
Men  Women 
   
 
51