 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018 
 
Hours of training provided to Group employees by professional role (2018) 
 
Worker health and safety 
GEDI has always been committed to protecting the integrity, health and well-being of its workers 
GRI 403-1 
GRI 403-2  at all of its workplaces. The Group actively complies with legal requirements and obligations 
GRI 403-3 
regarding health and safety in the workplace and ensures that they are applied in all of its 
GRI 403-4 
companies. This takes place through the definition of organisational structures based on specific 
GRI 403-5 
GRI 403-6  operating responsibilities, managerial responsibilities, the planning of prevention activities over 
GRI 403-7 
time, the preparation of the relative expense budget, and the ongoing use of all technical support 
GRI 403-9 
required to assess and reduce risks. Particular focus is dedicated to staff training based on roles - 
GRI 403-10 
workers, supervisors and executives - depending on the risks to which they are exposed and their 
specific tasks and duties.  
In 2018, with the collaboration of various company departments and the relative managers, for 
each production department all relevant data regarding working practices and the methods of 
execution of ordinary and extraordinary activities was collected in order to promptly identify the 
risks, attributing them to the job in question and evaluating the risk profiles. The analysis process 
continued with the identification of the prevention and protection measures which would enable 
the employee health and safety standards to be improved. The actions implemented after the risk 
assessment regard training activities, as described in the relevant paragraph of this report. The 
hierarchical control system involves all internal subjects (Employer, Executives, Managers and 
Employees) and represents an effective tool for monitoring health and safety.  
With regards to the safety of industrial plants, particular attention was given to verification and 
assessment activities during the design and acquisition of new machinery and the reorganisation 
and reconfiguration of machines and production cycles, with particular attention to the criteria 
regulating the introduction and management of substances and chemicals. Working conditions and 
operating procedures are continuously monitored to regularly improve worker health and safety 
levels. Furthermore, although a specific safety management system has not been implemented, 
operating instructions and procedures have been circulated for some time, representing an 
important  prevention  measure  at  printing  facilities  in  particular.  The  preparation  of  these 
documents involved the managers and workers of the operational unit, promoting the adoption 
and constant application of safety practices. 
In 2017 an online safety training course was offered to all employees while in 2018 the training 
activities  and  obligatory  five-year  health  and  safety  refresher  courses  were  continued  for 
administrative staff and journalists and for employees operating in printing facilities (manual 
workers,  maintenance  workers  and  technicians).  Furthermore,  specific  training  courses  for 
52