 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018 
 
Greenhouse gas emissions 
GRI 305-1  To monitor its environmental impact and implement initiatives to mitigate it, in 2018 GEDI once 
GRI 305-2 
again calculated the greenhouse gas emissions directly or indirectly associated with its core 
activities.   
To calculate the Group's greenhouse gas emissions, in 2018 the methods proposed by the GRI 
Sustainability Standards were applied. For this reason, scope 2 emissions for 2016 and 2017, which 
were calculated according to GRI G4, have been recalculated according to the new guidelines. 
The GRI proposes two different approaches for the calculation of scope 2 emissions: Market-based 
and Location-based. The “Market-based” approach centres on the use of an emission factor defined 
contractually with the electricity supplier, and considers the certificates acquired by the company 
that certify that the electricity is generated by renewable energy sources (e.g. Guarantee of Origin). 
The “Location-based” approach uses an average emission factor associated with the specific 
combination of energy sources used to generate electricity in the country in question. This 
approach takes into account the energy conversion factor with reference to its generation in the 
country in which it was purchased. 
For the Location-based calculation, the TERNA 2016 - Confronti Internazionali emission factors were 
used, while for the Market-based approach, the residual mix factors published by the AIB were 
used.  
For the calculation of thermal energy emissions (scope 2), the emission factor used corresponds to 
the factor indicated by the national energy efficiency agency (ENEA)4. 
In compliance with the provisions of the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, the leading emissions 
reporting standards, emissions were subdivided into various categories: in particular, Scope 1 
emissions refer to those produced by natural gas, while Scope 2 emissions refer to electricity and 
thermal energy consumption. 
   
                                                           
4For more information see the webpage http://www.efficienzaenergetica.enea.it/regioni/siape/poteri-calorifici-
inferiori-dei-combustibili-e-fattori-di-emissione-della-co2 
58