 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018 
 
radio broadcasting system which is still being planned in many Italian regions by the Ministry of 
Development. DAB has a number of advantages compared to analogue broadcasting: first and 
foremost, these include better signal quality due to the reduction in interference and disturbances 
deriving  from  the  overlapping  of  programmes  and  the  presence  of  obstacles  in  the  signal 
broadcasting path; secondly, the system helps to offer a better service to users as it enables 
supplementary information to be combined with the audio signal; finally, the DAB system consumes 
much less energy than analogue systems, which also greatly reduces the environmental impact. 
Water consumption 
GRI 303-3 GEDI promotes the responsible and informed use of water. This resource is used primarily in 
  employee bathrooms and, to a lesser extent, in the printing process at some plants. In 2018, water 
consumption came to 73,324 m3, representing a decrease of 28.7% compared to 20176.  
The Group uses water exclusively from the public water supply. 
As regards waste water, all of the Group's sites use the public drainage system, in line with the 
qualitative characteristics imposed by the water network operator. The Printing Facility in Rome is 
authorised for surface water drainage.  
As regards water abstraction from areas affected by water stress, the Group uses the Aqueduct 
Tool, developed by the World Resources Institute7, to identify potential at-risk areas. Water stress 
refers to the “extreme scarcity” and “scarcity” categories defined by the tool. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
                                                           
6The data relating to water consumption does not include the figures for the first two quarters of 2018 for GNN Sardegna 
(Cagliari-Tempio site). 
7The WRI tool is available online at the website: https://www.wri.org/our-work/project/aqueduct. For the purposes of 
the analysis, the results of the “baseline water stress” column were considered. 
60