 Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018 
 
 
Percentage of hazardous and non-hazardous waste produced by the Group (t) 
 
 
 
 
As well as the customary evaluation and management activities to ensure compliance with 
applicable  regulations,  the  company  complied  with  all  requirements  connected  with  the 
introduction of the SISTRI waste management system9. 
Returns and pulp 
Unsold copies of publications (“returns”) are returned to newsagents by Local Distributors 
who count and account for the same. Returns are generally collected from the warehouses of 
local distributors on pallets by a single operator responsible for collecting the return and sent 
to two depots, in central Italy and the other in Northern Italy. These depots count and certify 
them and if they are add-on products (Books, CDs, DVDs etc.), they are sorted. Copies in 
perfect condition are made available for sale through the back issues service while the 
remainders are pulped. 
In recent years the mechanism of the certified return of  17,913 tonnes of 
publications has been introduced. This consists of processing  pulped returns 
collected by local 
returns by local distributors through certification and, at the 
distributors in 
same time, pulping. As at 31 December 2018, 70 certificates 
2017   
were issued by the Certified Returns Body (concerning 47 out 
of 60 active local distributors) enabling local distributors to 
pulp the publications directly on-site. In 2018, local pulp   
totalled approximately 17,913 tonnes.  
This led to a significant reduction in the volume of copies that the returns collection company 
had to transport, store and collect, with a significant positive impact on the environment. 
                                                           
9Italian Law Decree no. 135 of 14 December 2018 concerning “Urgent provisions regarding support and simplification for 
businesses and the Public Administration” was published in Issue no. 290 of the Official Journal, pursuant to which, from 
01 January 2019, the SISTRI system was abolished. 
62