THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS THE INDEPENDENT CONTROL COMMITTEE 
Fastweb is governed by a Board of Directors (BoD) with  After the company’s delisting, the Board of Directors 
a three-year term and whose members may be re- established the Independent Control Committee on 27 
appointed. The BoD is vested with the fullest powers for  April 2011, assigning it internal control duties and a 
both the ordinary and extraordinary management of the  structure and functions that are more simplified than 
company and has the right to do whatever is necessary  those required of listed companies with respect to, inter 
to achieve the corporate purpose. alia, the accounting policies for the preparation of the 
financial statements, auditing and risk identification. 
Fastweb’s current Board of Directors was appointed by 
the shareholder during the shareholder’s meeting on  The Committee’s additional duties include the 
17 March 2016 and its term of office will end with the  definition of the guidelines for the internal control 
meeting called to approve the financial statements at  system for Fastweb and its subsidiaries and the 
31 December 2018. As determined by the shareholder,  annual assessment of the internal control system. To 
the BoD consists of six directors selected by the  further guarantee the Committee’s independence, the 
company’s sole shareholder. On 28 February 2018, the  Independent Chairman Alberto Giussani has a standing 
shareholder appointed Peter Burkhalter as director to  invitation to attend its meetings, along with: the external 
replace Ulrich Dietiker, who had resigned.  member of the Supervisory Body set up by Fastweb 
pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001, the 
The procedure for the appointment of the Board of  members of Fastweb’s Board of Statutory Auditors, 
Directors requires that the shareholder appoint the  Fastweb’s Chief Audit Executive, Fastweb’s Senior 
directors during the shareholder’s meeting upon the sole  Manager of Compliance & Risk Management and its 
shareholder’s proposal. Their term of office ends on the  Risk Manager: Any other person that the Committee 
date of the shareholder’s meeting called to approve the  deems appropriate in relation to the matter to be 
financial statements for the last year of their term. discussed may also participate in the Committee’s 
meetings. 
Although it is no longer legally required to have an 
independent director, the company decided to retain  The Board of Directors appointed the current 
Professor Alberto Giussani as Independent Director on  Independent Control Committee on 17 March 2016 
the Board of Directors, as he served previously when  and its term of office will end with the shareholder’s 
the company was listed on the Italian stock exchange. meeting called to approve the financial statements at 
31 December 2018.
The Board of Directors must be promptly notified 
of any conflicts of interest involving directors. The  THE BOARD OF STATUTORY AUDITORS
director concerned must specify “the nature, terms, 
origin and extent” of his/her interest, providing any  The current Board of Statutory Auditors monitors 
relevant information to allow the other directors and  compliance with the law, the by-laws and the principles 
the statutory auditors to evaluate whether there is a  of proper administration. It also verifies that the 
conflict, and, in general, whether the transaction is  organizational, administrative and accounting structure 
financially advantageous for the company.  is adequate and functional and that the independent 
auditors are indeed independent. The shareholder 
The Board of Directors may ask the Supervisory Body  appointed the current Board of Statutory Auditors on 
to conduct an immediate or routine check of the  2 March 2017 and its term of office will end with the 
aspects subject to the conflict of interest. shareholder’s meeting called to approve the financial 
statements at 31 December 2019. 
The Board of Directors meets at least once each 
quarter, as needed, and is vested with the fullest  THE GENERAL MANAGER
powers, except for those reserved for the shareholder’s 
meeting by law. At the first BoD meeting of the year,  The Board of Directors can appoint one or more 
the Board of Directors approves the budget for that  general managers, establishing their powers, including 
year and the draft financial statements. The Board of  representation, and their remuneration. On 8 November 
Directors held 18 meetings in 2018. 2010, Fastweb’s Board of Directors appointed Alberto 
Calcagno as General Manager, vesting him with full 
The BoD’s remuneration policies are decided jointly  powers to manage the company, and he remains in 
with the shareholder. However, the Board of Directors  office. The General Manager reports to the Board of 
retains responsibility for fees for special duties and the  Directors and is responsible for all the company’s 
Management Board’s remuneration. divisions and departments. 
10 The Fastweb model. Always a step ahead