THE CALCULATION METHODOLOGY The calculation of these rates includes employees with 
The methodology used to calculate certain indicators  permanent, fixed-term and apprenticeship contracts, 
reported in this Sustainability Report is described below. and excludes interns and temporary workers. The first 
day considered is the date when the injury occurs. 
Personnel indicators  Recorded injuries are those with a prognosis of at least 
All personnel indicators, with the exception of 102-8  three days. 
and 403-2, which consider the total workforce and  Hours worked in 2016 and 2017 were calculated by 
therefore include trainees and temporary workers, refer  subtracting lost hours due to absence in the year from 
to employees with permanent contracts, employees  total workable hours in the same year. 
with fixed-term contracts and apprentices in service at 
the end of the reporting year. Energy consumption
Energy consumption volumes have been converted into 
Turnover  GJ considering the primary source of energy and using 
New employee turnover is calculated as the number  the GRI 3.1 conversion factors. Specifically, 1MWh = 
of new hires during the year compared to the number  3.6 GJ; 1000 Nmc of natural gas = 39.01 GJ; 1 kg of 
of company employees (employees with permanent,  petrol = 44.80 MJ; 1 kg of diesel = 43.33 MJ. Petrol 
fixed-term and apprenticeship contracts) at 31  and diesel were converted from liters to kg considering 
December of the same year. the conversion factors specified in the Stationary 
Outgoing employee turnover is calculated as the number of  Combustion Tool of the GHG Protocol – version 4.0, 
employees who left the company during the year compared  specifically: 1 l petrol = 0.74 kg petrol; 1 l diesel = 0.84 
to the number of company employees (employees with  kg diesel (http://www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-
permanent, fixed-term and apprenticeship contracts) at  tools/all-tools).
31 December of the same year. Residential and business customers’ electricity 
consumption was estimated (GRI 302-2 Energy 
The total employee turnover rate is calculated as the  consumption outside of the organization) by multiplying 
number of new hires and employees who left the  the capacity data of devices provided to customers by 
company during the year compared to the number of  the number of hours those devices are used in a year. 
company employees in service on 31 December of the  The capacity of devices without specified capacity 
same year (considering employees with permanent,  data was estimated using the CLEER model (http://
fixed-term and apprenticeship contracts). cleermodel.lbl.gov/) or based on the data given in the 
products’ technical specifications. The average hours 
Post-parental leave retention rate  of use were estimated according to in-house analyses.
The retention rate of employees who have returned from 
parent leave is calculated as the number of employees  Greenhouse gas emissions
(with permanent, fixed-term and apprenticeship  Greenhouse gas emissions were calculated on 
contracts) still in service 12 months after they have  the basis of internationally recognized guidelines, 
returned from parental leave, compared to the total  specifically the “Corporate Accounting and Reporting 
number of employees who took parental leave. Standard” of the Global Greenhouse Gas Protocol (the 
accepted standard for monitoring climate-changing 
Injury rates  emissions) and the “ICT Footprint - Pilot Testing on 
The injury rates are calculated as follows:  Methodologies for Energy Consumption and Carbon 
 Fatality rate: number of fatal injuries/workable  Footprint of the ICT-sector” developed by the European 
hours*1,000,000 Commission. 
 Serious injury rate: number of injuries resulting in  Location-based Scope 2 emissions were calculated 
more than 40 days of missed work (excluding fatal  considering the factors in the international Ecoinvent 
injuries) / hours worked*1,000,000 database.
 Recordable injury rate: number of injuries that 
occurred in the year (including illnesses) / hours 
worked*1,000,000
100 Additional information