ASSURANCE STATEMENT ADDRESSED  
TO FASTWEB STAKEHOLDERS
1. INTRODUCTION 3. CONCLUSIONS
Fastweb S.p.A. (“Fastweb”) has commissioned Bureau  Following the assurance activities described above, 
Veritas Italia S.p.A. (“Bureau Veritas”) an independent  nothing has come to our attention to indicate that 
assurance of its 2018 Sustainability Report (“Report”), for  information and data in the Report are inaccurate, 
the purpose of providing findings over: incorrect or unreliable. In our opinion, the Report 
 the accuracy and quality of published information  provides a trustworthy representation of Fastweb 
concerning its sustainability performance; activities conducted by during the year 2018 and of 
 the correct application of those reporting principles  main results achieved.
outlined in the Report’s methodology, in particular 
Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting  Information is reported generally in a clear, 
Standards (GRI Standards). comprehensible and balanced manner.
2. RESPONSIBILITY, METHODOLOGY   In the illustration of activities and results, in particular, 
AND LIMITATIONS FASTWEB has paid attention to adopt a neutral 
language, avoiding as far as possible the self-
Fastweb alone had the responsibility of collecting,  referentiality.
analyzing, collating and presenting information and 
data included in its Report. Bureau Veritas responsibility  With regards to the reporting methodology 
has been to perform an independent assurance against  outlined by the organization in its Report, it is our 
defined objectives and to reach the conclusions  opinion that principles from the GRI Standards 
reported in this Statement. (Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context, 
Materiality, Completeness, Accuracy, Balance, Clarity, 
The assurance performed has been a Limited Assurance  Comparability, Reliability, Timelines) were duly 
in accordance to the ISAE 3000 standard, through  implemented. Based on our assurance activities, a 
sample application of audit techniques, including: “Comprehensive” level of implementation has been 
 review of Fastweb’s policy, mission, values,  achieved. We also confirm that our activities met the 
commitments; GRI requirements for external assurance.
 review of records, data, procedures and information-
gathering systems; 4. DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE, 
 interviews to members of the working group  IMPARTIALITY AND COMPETENCE
responsible for drafting the Report;
 interviews to company representatives from various  Bureau Veritas is a global organization specialized in 
functions and levels, including top management; independent assurance, inspection and certification 
 overall verification of information and general content  activities, with over 180 years history, 75.000 
of the 2018 Sustainability Report. employees and an annual turnover of more than 4,7 
billion euro in 2017.
The assurance activities have been performed at the at the 
company offices in Via Caracciolo and Viale Fulvio Testi  Bureau Veritas applies internally a Code of Ethics and 
(Milan - Italy), and we believe we have obtained sufficient  we believe there were no conflicts of interest between 
and adequate evidence to support our conclusions. members of the assurance team and FASTWEB at the 
time of the assurance.
The assurance has covered the whole 2018 
Sustainability Report, with the following limitations: for 
economic and financial information, Bureau Veritas 
only verified their consistency with the company’s 
annual report and accounts; for activities outside the 
reference period (1 January 2018 – 31 December 
2018) and for statements of policy, intent and objective, 
Bureau Veritas verified their consistency against the  Bureau Veritas Italia S.p.A. 
outlined reporting methodology. Furthermore, it was  Milan, February 12th, 2019
not possible to review the impact assessment in 
section 2.3 “The impact of FASTWEB on the socio-
economic development of the country”, due to the use 
of calculation parameters protected by copyright.
101