THE MANAGEMENT BOARD THE SHAREHOLDER’S MEETING
Fastweb’s Board of Directors has formally  The by-laws establish the procedures for calling the 
established an advisory committee consisting of  shareholder’s meeting, the right to participate and proxies. 
managers not on the BoD, with the exception of  The meetings are chaired by the Chairman of the Board of 
the CEO, who chairs this committee, known as the  Directors, who is assisted by a secretary appointed by the 
Management Board.  shareholder. During the meetings, the BoD sees that the 
shareholder is apprised of the necessary information to 
The Management Board acts as the functional  make knowledgeable decisions. 
coordinator for the activities of Fastweb’s operating   
units. This may include a preliminary analysis of  PROCEDURE FOR TRANSACTIONS 
issues of strategic importance for future business  INVOLVING A CONFLICT OF INTEREST OR 
development and transactions that are significant in  CONFLICTING WITH THE INTERESTS OF 
terms of their impact on performance, the financial  OTHER DIRECTORS OR EMPLOYEES 
position and equity. The Management Board also 
advises on topics and transactions that the Board of  In 2014 Fastweb established a procedure consisting of the 
Directors submits to it.  policies and operating rules that directors and employees 
must follow to ensure the transparency and substantial 
The Management Board’s current members are: the  and procedural correctness of transactions that may 
Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the  involve the interests of other directors or employees, or 
Operating Officer, the Digital Transformation Officer, the  that may present conflicts between the personal interests 
Human Capital Officer, the Chief Institutional & External  of directors or employees and Fastweb’s.
Relations Officer, the Chief Legal & Regulatory Affairs 
Officer, the Marketing & Customer Experience Officer,  In compliance with the provisions of article 2391 of the 
the Consumer & Small Business Officer, the Chief  Italian Civil Code, the measures adopted supplement 
Enterprise Officer, the Chief Wholesale Officer and the  the internal control system based on the Fastweb 
Technology Officer. Group’s Code of Conduct and Fastweb’s Organizational, 
Management and Control Model. The procedure also 
For specific areas, certain members of the  applies to the members of the Board of Statutory Auditors. 
Management Board are involved in Steering 
Committees focused on certain issues, which meet  There were no circumstances leading to the application 
periodically to implement management’s guidelines  of the procedure for transactions involving a conflict 
and discuss the achievement of targets, progress, any  of interest or conflicting with the interests of other 
critical areas and improvement areas.  directors or employees in 2018.
The Fastweb model. Always a step ahead 11