7.4  GLOSSARY
Broadband services Services provided with a  Digital networks are rapidly replacing the outdated 
transmission speed of at least 2 Mbit/s. According to  analogue networks; they enable increased capacity 
international standards, these services are broken down  and more flexibility through the use of computer-based 
into two categories: technology for transmitting and handling calls. Digital 
systems offer less noise interference and can also 
 Interactive services, including video-phoning/  incorporate encryption as security against external 
video-conferencing (point-to-point and multipoint),  interference.
video- monitoring, interconnection of local networks; 
file transfer, CAD, high-speed fax transfer, e-mail with  Direct emissions  
moving images or shared documents, broadband  Emissions generated by sources that the organization 
video- text, on-demand videos, recovery of audio  owns or controls (e.g. emissions from mobility and 
programs or of fixed and moving images; office heating).
 Broadband services, such as audio programs,  Indirect emissions 
television programs (including high-resolution TV and  Emissions that are the result of the organization’s 
pay-TV) and selective acquisition of documents. activities, but that are generated by sources owned 
or controlled by other organizations (e.g. emissions 
Ultra-fast broadband  originating from the generation of energy consumed).
The term “broadband” refers to a transmission scheme 
where multiple signals share the bandwidth of a single  Fiber optics 
medium (usually fiber optics, more rarely over the  Thin strands (fiber) of glass or plastic forming the 
air or metal cable), allowing more information to be  infrastructure base for data transmission. A fiber 
transmitted simultaneously and more rapidly. Ultra-fast  cable contains a number of individual fibers, each 
broadband is the term used when the transmission  one of which can transmit the signal (light waves) at 
speed exceeds 30 Mbps. a practically unlimited bandwidth. They are mainly 
used for long-distance transmissions to transfer large 
Direct energy consumption  amounts of data, because signals are protected from 
Consumption of primary energy sources (natural  interference along their path. Fiber optic cables can 
gas, fuel, etc.) in areas that the organization owns or  carry a lot more data than traditional cables and copper 
controls. An example of this is the consumption of  wires. They come in the form of flexible cables and are 
natural gas to operate heating systems installed in the  immune to electrical interference as well as extreme 
organization’s facilities. weather conditions and are resistant to changes in 
temperature. The cladding is usually 125 micrometers 
Indirect energy consumption  in diameter (about the diameter of a strand of human 
Consumption of primary energy sources (coal, natural  hair) and the cables are extremely light: one kilometer 
gas, fossil fuels etc.) in areas that the organization  of optical fiber weighs less than 2 kg, not including 
does not own or control. An example of this is the  the protective sheath. Fiber optics are classified as 
consumption of electricity purchased from a supplier  dielectric waveguides. In other words, they can transfer 
company, which uses primary energy sources in its  and conduct an electromagnetic field of sufficiently 
own facilities in order to generate electricity. high frequency (in general, close to infrared) with 
extremely limited loss. They are commonly used in 
Digital   telecommunications to transmit optic signals also over 
This is a mode of representing a physical variable with  long distances, on transport network, and in the supply 
a language that uses only the digits 0 and 1. The digits  of cabled broadband access (from 100 Mbit/s to Tbit/s 
are transmitted in binary form as a series of pulses.  using the most refined WDM technologies.
112 Additional information