GPON (Gigabit Passive Optical Network)  media (e.g. voice, video, text etc.) and hybrid products 
FTTH network architecture in which fiber optics arrives  generated through their interaction.
inside the customer’s home. It allows for extremely high 
performance, superior to 1 Gbit/s. The GPON network  Mobile Virtual Network Operator (MVNO)  
uses passive “splitters” to subdivide the fiber repeatedly  A mobile telephone services provider that uses the 
and to direct it towards various buildings, thus reducing  network infrastructure of another operator to provide 
the amount of fiber and necessary apparatus with  services to its customers. An MVNO is a full-fledged 
respect to other FTTH architecture used in the past.  telephone services provider (with its own SIM cards, 
The passive nature of the GPON network allows for the  prepaid and/or subscription promotions, customer care 
elimination of “active” network elements in the access  and management) that does not have its own network 
network (which are therefore limited to the base and in  infrastructure. 
the customers’ homes), reducing the use of electricity 
and increasing efficiency for an energy standpoint. Alternative operator 
Alternative telecommunications provider to TIM, the 
ICT (Information and Communication(s) Technology)  former incumbent carrier in Italy.
Set of methods and technologies used for 
manufacturing the transmission, reception and  Administrative bodies 
processing of information and data. In this report, the expression “administrative bodies” 
refers to the Management Board and the Board of 
IP (Internet Protocol)  Directors.
Set of communication standards used to exchange 
data on the Internet. This network interconnection  Platform 
protocol (Inter-Networking Protocol) is classified  The complete set of inputs, including hardware, 
at network layer (3) of ISO/OSI model, created to  software, operating equipment and procedures, 
interconnect heterogeneous networks for technology,  to produce (production platform) or manage 
performance, management, therefore implemented  (management platform) a particular service (service 
above other connection protocols, like Ethernet or  platform).
ATM. It is a connectionless and best-effort delivery 
service and therefore does not guarantee reliability of  Network 
communication in terms of error control, flow control  A set of connected elements. In a telephone network, 
and congestion control, which are handled by the higher  these elements consist of switches connected to 
transport layer (level 4) transfer protocols, such as TCP.  one another and to the customer’s equipment. The 
The currently adopted version of the IP protocol is also  transmission equipment may consist of fiber optic or 
called IPv4 to distinguish it from the more recent IPv6,  metal cables or of point-to-point radio connections.
developed to deal with the growing number of computers.
User Experience 
Local Loop (Doppino Telefonico)  What a person experiences when using a product, 
The pair of twisted copper wires physically connecting  system or service. User experience refers to the 
a customer’s home or office to the telephone  experiential and emotional aspects and the meaning 
company’s exchange. This is the traditional foundation  and value of owning a product and interacting with it, 
of telephone lines and is also referred to as the “last  in addition to the person’s perception of aspects such 
mile”. as utility, ease of use and efficiency. It is considered 
subjective because it relates to an individual’s ideas 
Multimedia  and feelings about a system, and it is dynamic because 
A service involving two or more communications  it varies over time with the user’s circumstances.
Additional information 113