1.3  ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE: WE ARE RESPONSIBLE  
  FOR OURSELVES AND OTHERS
THE INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK  is responsible for preparing the risk mitigation or 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM risk acceptance plan. Risk reviews are carried out 
periodically with Risk Owners, and the effectiveness of 
The Internal Control and Risk Management System is  the measures taken by the Measure Owners appointed 
the set of rules, procedures and organizational structures  over time in the risk mitigation plan is reassessed.
to enable the identification, measurement, management 
and monitoring of the main business risks.  With the support of the units responsible for individual 
risks, an updated quarterly risk status report is also 
Fastweb has defined the players and the functioning  prepared, tailored to meet the needs of each of the 
of its internal control system in the “Internal Control  relevant stakeholders (Swisscom, the Independent 
and Risk Management System-Assurance Framework  Control Committee and senior management). 
Directive”. In addition to the Board of Directors, the CEO, 
231&262 Compliance, Risk Management, the CFO, the  THE 231 MODEL
Board of Statutory Auditors, the Management Board, 
the Independent Auditors, Management and employees,  In compliance with Italian Legislative Decree 231/01, 
this system also includes: Fastweb has adopted an organizational model that 
establishes the main rules of conduct for all the 
 The Independent Control Committee, which assists  company’s employees and defines the processes, 
the Board of Directors by providing advice and  areas, “sensitive” activities (i.e., those at risk of a 
recommendations concerning the internal control  crime covered by Legislative Decree 231/01) and the 
system; associated controls. The aforementioned Code of 
Conduct is also an integral part of the 231 Model. In 
 the Supervisory Body, which is in charge of  its most recent version, which the Board of Directors 
monitoring the 231 Model’s effectiveness and  approved on 26 July 2018, the Code of Conduct 
adequacy of the 231 Model with regard to its effective  includes updates concerning the anti-corruption 
ability to reduce the risk of the crimes covered by  guidelines and compliance with personal data 
Italian Legislative Decree 231/01 being committed,  protection legislation (GDPR). 
that all addressees of the 231 Model comply with it 
and that it is updated to meet changes in company  The 231 Model is regularly updated to reflect 
conditions;  developments in legislation and organizational 
changes. In particular, during the year, the Model was 
 Internal Audit, which verifies that the internal control and  supplemented with the anti-corruption guidelines 
risk management system is functional and adequate. in the areas at risk of bribery (both in the public and 
private sector) and to include the additional crimes 
Fastweb has also adopted an Enterprise Risk  (e.g., illegal intermediation and labor exploitation). 
Management (ERM) framework and procedures for  Furthermore, updates were made the sections of 
identifying, analyzing, monitoring and mitigating any  the Model concerning whistleblowing, with regard to 
risks to which the company could be exposed. the disciplinary system, to reflect developments in 
legislation. 
This framework is structured into processes and 
models in line with industry best practices and  To spread a culture and knowledge of risk management 
guarantees extensive coverage of risk assessment and  and prevention and awareness of the importance of 
mitigation, which are carried out jointly with the units/ effectively complying with the Model, Fastweb has 
departments responsible for the different risks.  organized mandatory e-learning courses for all its 
employees, constantly updating the content of these 
Compliance & Risk Management, working within the  courses to reflect changes in legislation and the 
Internal Audit, Compliance & Risk Management Division  company. 
is responsible for designing, managing and maintaining 
this system, which also provides for Risk Assessment  At 31 December 2018, 100% of employees, regardless of 
cycles carried out by different units quarterly to  their contractual level, participated in training on Italian 
annually, depending on the risk classification. Legislative Decree 231/01, on the 231 Model and the 
corruption crimes covered by Legislative Decree 231/011. 
A Risk Owner is assigned to each identified risk and  All employees are immediately informed of updates to 
1. The percentages indicated refer to employees registered for the course and present at the company when it was offered as e-learning (the percentages do not include new 
hires from September to December 2018, who will complete the training in the first few months of 2019, or employees who were continuously absent for personal reasons 
from May to December 2018, who were unable to access the e-learning when it was available).
12 The Fastweb model. Always a step ahead