the Code of Conduct and the Model, while newly hired  Body conducted supervisory activities on all business 
employees recent an e-mail containing information on  divisions, which consisted of 19 audits on the content 
the Code of Conduct and the 231 Model and are required  of the periodic information that it received and two 
to take an e-learning course on these topics. compliance audits. The Supervisory Body reports to the 
BoD on any critical issues relating to its range of action 
In November 2018, a new e-learning training course  (application of the 231 Model).
began for all personnel, which covers updates to the 231 
legislation, the 231 Model, the Code of Conduct, the anti- The audits mainly focused on issues relating to the risk 
corruption guidelines and the whistleblowing procedure. of corruption, while the compliance audits concerned 
the management of sub-contracting and compliance 
Furthermore, classroom training sessions were  with Italian Legislative Decree 136/2010 on the 
organized during the year on: traceability of financial flows.
 “Public invitations to tender”: a multi-disciplinary ilex  The supervisory activities are included in the Integrated 
(internal learning experience) course for Enterprise  Strategic Audit Plan (ISAP) presented annually to the 
teams (KAM, pre-sale, PMs) which covers various  Independent Control Committee, and mainly focus 
topics, including compliance with Italian Legislative  on monitoring that the Model is effectively applied in 
Decree 231/2001 insofar as it relates to crimes  the areas most at risk of crime. The SB organizes the 
committed in public contracts (77 trainees); activities, ensuring that sensitive activities are audited 
regularly. 
 “External activity management” with a focus on 
the management of consultants: this course was  Information is reported to the SB in accordance with 
organized with Internal Audit and Human Capital for  article 6, paragraph 2, letter d) of Italian Legislative 
Enterprise teams (pre-sale, provisioning, PMs, service  Decree 231/01. The SB discusses the types and 
operations) on legal risks, 231 risks and labor law  frequency of these reports with the respective internal 
risks in connection with the operational management  managers of sensitive processes who follow the 
of consultants (27 trainees); agreed methods and meet the established deadlines. At 
present, 26 reports have been established (sent by 24 
 “Whistleblowing”: for HC Business Partners  reporters). 
with a focus on the operational management of 
whistleblowers in terms of Human Capital. FASTWEB AND COMPLIANCE: A  
PRO-ACTIVE, CONTINUOUSLY EVOLVING 
People working on Fastweb’s behalf but who are not  COMMITMENT
employees, are also informed of the control principles 
and standards in the Model, which apply to them. Under  At Fastweb, we constantly endeavor to ensure 
specific contractual clauses, these people undertake  that all our employees, suppliers and partners 
within the scope of their relationships with the  comply with current legislation, and this 
company to comply with current regulations and, in any  includes establishing internal procedures and 
case, to prevent the committing - and the attempted  policies.
committing - of the crimes subject to the sanctions of   
Italian Legislative Decree 231/01.  In line with this fundamental commitment, we have 
voluntarily opted to reinforce our system of policies and 
THE SUPERVISORY BODY controls to prevent the risk of corruption.
To monitor that the 231 Model is properly applied,  Since 2018, the company has pursued a new plan 
Fastweb has appointed its own Supervisory Body  encompassing a series of specific steps, such as 
(SB), formed of the Chairman of the Independent  adopting anti-corruption guidelines, appointing a specific 
Control Committee, the Chief Audit Executive and an  Anti-Corruption Officer, preparing new contractual 
independent criminal lawyer. The members have the  clauses for suppliers and joining the Business Integrity 
same term of office as the BoD that appointed them.  Forum, an initiative promoted by Transparency 
International Italia to improve transparency, integrity and 
In 2018, with the support of the Senior Manager of  responsibility in Italian business, with the cooperation of 
Compliance & Risk Management, the Supervisory  large Italian companies.
The Fastweb model. Always a step ahead 13