The Business Integrity Forum Fastweb’s guiding policies
The Business Integrity Forum (BIF) brings together   Anti-Corruption Guidelines: another tool that 
large Italian companies that are already actively  summarizes and optimizes the framework of 
committed to integrity and transparency and that,  anti-corruption policies already in place, with 
through the BIF, formally undertake to prevent  the objective of creating an organic and efficient 
and mitigate corruption in business practices by  system to reinforce the promotion of anti-
adopting and spreading anti-corruption solutions  corruption principles, integrity and transparency 
and practices and a greater culture of legality. Each  within the company.
year, the BIF promotes a number of activities - from   Anti-Corruption Policy: these are the rules of 
targeted work groups to training and awareness  conduct to reduce the risk of corruption crimes 
campaigns for small and medium enterprises - to  being committed within the scope of company 
encourage and spread a genuine, nation-wide culture  activities.
of transparency.   Anti-Corruption Policy for Invitations to Events: 
this policy outlines the operating procedure 
Specifically, the anti-corruption guidelines are the result  to reduce the risk of corruption crimes being 
of years of work to build upon internal risk monitoring  committed through invitations to sports, cultural 
and management controls. These guidelines have been  and informational events extended to public and 
developed on the basis of the results of the periodic  private customers.
risk assessments conducted to update the 231 Model,   Gifts Policy: these are the conditions for 
enabling the company to explore certain sensitive  accepting/giving gifts in relationships with third 
areas and processes such as, but not limited to, the  parties, such as suppliers, customers and public 
management of relationships with public authorities,  officials.
suppliers and employees.   Customer Data Protection Policy: this policy 
defines how Fastweb informs all customers about 
The Board of Directors approved the guidelines on 26  how personal data are processed in accordance 
July 2018 and they were shared with personnel using  with the rights of users established in the Personal 
in-house communication solutions (Agorà) and outside  Data Protection Code.
the company on the Fastweb website.  Environmental Policy: it is based on ISO 14001 
and outlines the framework for establishing and 
In addition, the company has started specific training  adjusting environmental protection objectives.
to increase awareness and knowledge of the guidelines   Safety Policy: based on OHSAS 18001, this policy 
among its entire population. implements the company’s commitment to health 
and safety and outlines the policies and good 
Continuous monitoring is another cornerstone of Fastweb’s  practices to apply at all organizational levels.
new anti-corruption model. The new guidelines establish   Procurement Policy: this policy formalizes 
a multi-tier control system starting with employees - who  Fastweb’s commitment to promoting integrity 
make up the first level of controls, as they are responsible,  and transparency throughout the entire supply 
to the extent of their duties, for the correct functioning  chain, specifying the values that suppliers must 
of the system - up to specific second-level controls  uphold in relation to the community and the 
conducted by Compliance & Risk Management, and  environment. 
targeted audits by Internal Audit. In the same spirit   Sustainable Mobility Policy: it defines the 
that characterized Fastweb’s work to implement anti- business travel procedures to contain costs and 
corruption policies, the company is currently working on  protect the environment. 
a voluntary antitrust compliance plan, with the end aim   Whistleblowing Policy: this policy regulates how 
of establishing an internal plan that is consistent with  reports of illegitimate conduct are managed, 
the new antitrust compliance guidelines that AGCM (the  specifying the methods of communication 
Italian Antitrust Authority) issued in September 2018. and management to be used by the company. 
Whistleblowers may make reports by telephone, 
VOLUNTARY RULES: POLICIES AND  traditional post or anonymously using the 
CERTIFICATES public web link, which is also available on the 
company Intranet, in which a form is provided 
In addition to the internal controls described above,  for whistleblowing reports. All reports remain 
Fastweb has defined a series of policies that  completely confidential and are analyzed and, 
encapsulate and express the company’s commitment  if necessary, managed, in the most appropriate 
to areas ranging from anti-corruption and the  manner.
environment to security and data protection.
14 The Fastweb model. Always a step ahead