FAIR COMPETITION AND TRANSPARENCY  it could make, which were, however, rejected by AGCM. 
IN PRODUCT INFORMATION Consequently, it paid the amount of the sanction 
imposed in the final decision of April 2018, totaling  
Compliance with antitrust rules and transparency in  4.4 million Euros, while lodging an appeal with the 
customer communications, two cornerstones of the  Regional Administrative Court. Indeed, Fastweb 
telecommunications market, are highly regulated and  believes that AGCM began the sanction procedure 
supervised by various public authorities. at a time when AGCOM (the Italian Communications 
Authority) was still defining the related regulations. 
AGCM, the Italian Antitrust Authority As soon as AGCOM defined the new regulations on the 
use of the term “fiber” in communications targeting 
AGCM is the Italian Antitrust Authority responsible  users in July 2018, Fastweb updated its advertising 
for enforcing compliance with rules that prohibit  messages and changed all communications relating 
anti-competition agreements between companies,  to non-FTTH fiber connection services, replacing the 
the abuse of dominant market positions and  word “fiber” with “super fast Internet”. From that time 
concentrations that could create or strengthen  on, Fastweb has only used the term “ultra-fiber” for 
dominant positions to the detriment of competition.  connections that it provides completely via optical 
The President and members of AGCM are appointed  fiber to the user’s door. Furthermore, it has added the 
by the Presidents of the Italian House and Senate.  required green symbol solely for cases in which the 
advertising messages are for specific regions covered 
AGCOM, the Italian Communications  with FTTH/GPON technologies.
Authority
During the year, Fastweb received another two 
AGCOM is responsible for ensuring fair competition  notifications of AGCOM sanction procedures. In March 
among telecommunications market players and  2018 AGCOM fined the company 170 thousand Euros 
reports it work to Parliament, which defines its  for alleged disservices to users during access service 
powers and by-laws and appoints it members. migration and termination procedures. In July 2018 
AGCOM fined the company 406 thousand Euros, 
claiming that Fastweb had continued to advertise 
Again in 2018, Fastweb confirmed its commitment  offers with renewal and billing every four weeks even 
to communicating with customers with transparent  after Italian Law 172/2017 entered into force, requiring 
messages and clear descriptions of its offers to  operators to provide renewal and billing on a monthly 
strengthen the trust-based relationship that the  basis or in month-based multiples. In both cases, 
company has forged with its customers. Indeed,  after paying the sanction, Fastweb appealed before 
this trust is the foundation of a positive experience  the Regional Administrative Court. In particular, the 
for Fastweb service users. However, in 2018, AGCM  company appealed against the second sanction as 
assessed certain non-conformities in Fastweb’s  it referred to the same matter with the same claims 
commercial communications.  already made by AGCOM to justify the previous 
sanction in December 2017 concerning billing every 
Specifically, in November 2017, AGCM began a  four weeks. With respect to these sanctions, after all 
procedure to impose sanctions on Fastweb and all  major operators filed appeals, the Council of State 
major domestic telephone operators, challenging  suspended AGCOM’s order to refund users until the 
their allegedly misleading use of the term “fiber”  reasons for the first-level decision cancelling the 
in advertising campaigns to promote connectivity  December 2017 sanction for 1.16 million Euros were 
services via optical fiber and, in particular, in connection  made known. In this context, Fastweb was the only 
with non-FTTH connection services.  operator to have already offered compensation to its 
customers (activation and use of the WOW Space 
Although Fastweb deemed AGCM’s claims to be  service for free and forever), which it confirmed even 
unfounded, it proposed a series of commitments that  after receiving the Council of State’s decision.
16 The Fastweb model. Always a step ahead