Letter to stakeholders
The digital revolution is driving radical change and we  We are confident that this strategy will pay off: network 
at Fastweb strongly believe in its potential to improve  infrastructure, skills, the desire to create a future in 
the quality of life. The numbers speak for themselves:  which technology is an ally not only in the provision of 
digitalization has the potential to help shape a more  increasingly higher performance connectivity services, but 
inclusive development model that respects the  also to enable new solutions serving communities and 
environment and offers a host of new opportunities for  residents. 
businesses, workers and residents alike, facilitating the 
achievement of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals  The results attained this year with 5G testing in Bari and 
in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.  Matera - as part of the Ministry of Economic Development 
tender that we won with TIM and Huawei - and those 
However, to benefit from new technologies, we  to come with forthcoming 5G initiatives in partnership 
must work on the conditions that enable them -  with the Rome municipal authorities, Ericsson and ATAC 
infrastructure, innovation and skills - and are capable  - demonstrate that we are headed in the right direction. 
of transforming technological trends into true catalysts  Projects like telemedicine to provide home assistance to 
for well-being and sustainable and development. Its  the Bari hospital’s hematology/oncology patients, the use 
desire to make a difference in this arena is the basis  of augmented reality for technical training as part of the 
for Fastweb’s interpretation of sustainability as a  Industry 4.0 agenda tested with ship engine maker Isotta 
genuine commitment to upholding its mission of  Fraschini and the smart port solution to monitor security at 
“improving life and work through the Internet”. With  the Bari port make us proud of our work and demonstrate 
projects that engage all stakeholders, Fastweb is  how new technologies can truly make a difference in 
intent on integrating corporate social responsibility in  improving the quality of life of residents and communities.
its business, in accordance with the parent company 
Swisscom’s sustainability strategy. It is vital to promote a genuine digital culture in Italy in 
order to take advantage of the many opportunities of 
Demonstrating its contribution to digitalization, Fastweb  technological transition. This is the conviction on which 
has continued to invest in 2018 to position itself at the  we have, through many initiatives associated with our 
technological forefront, acting as an ambassador for  #GetDigital plan - from the Fastweb Digital Academy to 
innovation for 20 years. This has led us to work on the  Fastweb4School and Digital IQ, the new self-assessment 
FTTH and FTTN network development plans kicked  test - continued to structure our commitment to this goal, 
off in recent years and to continue investing in 5G and  not only working on the fundamental digital skills for school 
the integration of landline infrastructure with mobile  and jobs, but also explaining, through targeted initiatives for 
technology to become the top convergence operator in the  young people, residents and families, what changes they 
country.  can expect in their lives and how to face them.
Urs Schaeppi