Sustainability at Fastweb. 
For a present connected 
to the future
2.1  OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
To Fastweb, corporate social responsibility (CSR) means  In 2018 the CSR unit continued to strengthen its 
continuously listening to and promoting dialogue with  commitment to these issues, focusing in particular on 
stakeholders, the ability to analyze, manage and mitigate the  three fundamental areas: the development of digital 
impacts of company activities and developing innovative  skills (through the #Getdigital project introduced in 
projects for residents, households and companies to  chapter 3), the definition of a sustainability brand for 
make digitalization a driver for social development in Italy. Fastweb products and services (described in chapter 
6) and the spread of a new sustainability culture both 
CSR means transversally focusing on the impacts that  within the company and throughout the country, 
technologies have on people’s lives: based on the conviction that only by promoting 
    greater awareness at all levels can we achieve real 
Our company transforms the needs of the social  improvement.
context in which we operate into initiatives for the 
future, starting with four strategic areas defined  To this end, in addition to a widespread social media 
as the “pillars of sustainability at Fastweb”:  campaign promoting Fastweb’s CSR activities, CSR 
Digitalization and digital skills, Transparency and  Open Meetings have been held, open to all employees. 
reliability, Work and inclusion, Environmental  During these informal events, participants have learned 
responsibility and sustainability. about the company’s sustainability strategies and 
initiatives.
Every year and in each area, Fastweb takes tangible 
action which can be reformulated according to the  During the year, Fastweb continued to reflect on its 
changing context, which is always aimed at achieving  strategies and prospects with respect to the key 
the high-level objectives defined for each pillar. issues on which to focus its sustainability actions 
and reporting, as it aims to deepen the connection 
Integrating sustainability in the business model has led to  between the company’s work, the creation of value 
the company’s progressive structuring with the influence  throughout Italy and the main challenges of sustainable 
of the CSR unit, which oversees corporate responsibility  development at national level.
since 2017, reporting directly to the Marketing & Customer 
Experience Officer. The professionals on the CSR team  In addition to ongoing updates to the analysis of 
aim to define the overall sustainability strategy in line with  interconnections between Fastweb’s activities and 
the business strategy, design innovative projects and  the Sustainable Development Goals, the sustainability 
implement them in partnership with the other company  milestones reached include having completed a model 
units involved and make the most of the work conducted  to assess Fastweb’s direct, indirect and induced 
inside and outside the organization through targeted  impacts in Italy, the results of which are summarized in 
communications plans.  the pages that follow.
20 Sustainability at Fastweb. For a present connected to the future