2.2  ICT AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT:  
  A HIGH-IMPACT COMBINATION
Each year, ASVIS, the Italian Alliance for Sustainable  positively impact the SDGs, in fields as diversified as 
Development, prepares an “ASVIS Report” to monitor the  virtual learning, smart agriculture and e-health, could 
country’s progress with respect to the 17 Sustainable  generate significant results by 2030, in addition to new 
Development Goals (SDGs) and emphasize the need  opportunities for the digital industry, estimated to total 
for a global shift in order to implement an inclusive,  2.1 trillion dollars. 
sustainable and people-oriented development model in 
line with the objectives set by the United Nations in 2015.  The report is based on the Digital Access Index (DAI), a 
new framework of indicators developed to monitor the 
European countries and Italy are no exception: one  ICT sector’s contribution to overcoming the challenges 
quarter of the European population is still at risk of  of sustainable development on a periodic basis, starting 
poverty and social exclusion, and unemployment and  with three categories of KPIs:
underemployment remain rampant. In Italy, specifically, 
progress on goals 2 “Sustainable food and agriculture”,  a) connectivity, in turn broken down into three sub-
3 “Good health and well-being”, 4 “Quality education”,  categories: infrastructure (with indicators like the 
5 “Gender equality”, 9 “Innovation”, 12 “Responsible  percentage of 4G network coverage and the number 
production and consumption models” and 13 “Climate  of Internet access points), the use, consisting of 
change” has been, unfortunately, offset by worsening  KPIs on the use of technology (e.g., the number of 
poverty, labor, inequality, conditions in cities and  broadband accounts on fixed and mobile lines and 
biodiversity (goals 1, 8, 10, 11 and 15).  smartphone market penetration) and accessibility, 
with indicators such as the cost of mobile phone 
In this context, ICT companies can offer a significant  rates or the cost of specific rates for mobile devices;
contribution. As highlighted in the report “Enabling the 
Global Goals. Evidence of digital solutions’ impact on  b) technologies, with indicators like mobile M2M 
achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)”  connections and social media penetration;
published in 2018 by the Global e-Sustainability 
Initiative6 (GeSi) in collaboration with Accenture,  c) digital solutions with monitoring KPIs on the 
integrating sustainability in process innovation and  penetration of technologies like smart working and 
the consequent provision of digital solutions that  e-health. 
6. The international strategic partnership between ICT companies and associations to support and create technologies and practices that promote economic, environmental 
and social sustainability.
24 Sustainability at Fastweb. For a present connected to the future