Accordingly, the work is based on a correlation analysis7  Positive link dominant across perspectives and level of analysis 
between the DAI and the 17 SDGs, beginning with a set 
of 81 indicators relating to the SDGs analyzed for 157  Relationship patterns across perspectives and levels of analysis
countries around the world. 
SDG Index
Tthhees ere tswuolt sv asrhiaobwle as 8h, iwghitlhy  ap ocsoietifvfeic rieenlatt oiofn 0s.h7i8p,  wbehtiwche en  LEVEL 1INDEX
indicates that an increase in digitalization, such as an 
increase in the number of connected people and devices, 
17 SDGs
is tied to positive progress in achieving the SDGs.
In particular, 11 of the 17 SDGs (65% of the total) present 
a positive correlation with the DAI, while five SDGs do  2RY 11
not show a clear correlation and goal 12 “Responsible  VEL EGO
production and consumption” has a negative correlation.  LECAT 1
The goals that are most highly correlated with the DAI  ? 5
are social goals and specifically relate to improvements 
in the quality of life, above all goal 3, and economic goals 
promoting fair growth, most significantly goals 8 and 9.  81 SDG indicators
These results can be traced back to the very 
characteristics of digital technologies, which center  3OR 39
around people and are capable of promoting the  VEL CAT
development of new business models.  LENDI 8
I
The analysis showed that the only environmental SDG  ? 34
with a negative correlation to digitalization is goal 12 
“Responsible production and consumption models”, which 
also focuses on promoting the efficient use of resources  Absolute majority  Relative majority 
(50% of n) positive (largest % of n) positive
and reduction of waste, mainly due to the sector’s impact in 
terms of technological waste production. positive negative ? unclear
7. A correlation is the manner by which two variables vary together, i.e., covary; the correlation considers two aspects: the type of relationship between the two variables and 
the form of the relationship. The correlation between the two variables is represented by the coefficient of determination, denoted R2 and ranging from 0 to 1. The closer the 
correlation between the two variables, the closer the coefficient of determination will be to 1.
8. The SDG index or the SDSN index used in the report was developed by the UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network (SDSN) and the Bertelsmann Foundation.
Sustainability at Fastweb. For a present connected to the future 25