FASTWEB’S CONTRIBUTION TO THE SDGS the SDGs for 2018 differ from those for 2017, with 
the introduction of SDG 3 “Good health and well-
Based on the results of the “Enabling the Global Goals.  being”, in relation to which new initiatives have been 
Evidence of digital solutions’ impact on achieving the  introduced, and the elimination of SDG 12 “Responsible 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)” report and  consumption and production”.
the top goals established in 2017, in keeping with 
the strategy shared with Swisscom, during the year,  Indeed, we firmly believe that only by conducting 
Fastweb conducted an update on the Sustainable  a careful performance analysis can it achieve 
Development Goals for its activities. This analysis  progress and significantly contribute to meeting 
enabled it to identify nine goals relating to the four  the challenges of sustainable development most 
Corporate Social Responsibility pillars to which the  closely connected to our business.
company aims to contribute significantly. In particular, 
SDG Fastweb’s contribution Pillar The key projects
By developing innovative telemedicine 
solutions, we are committed to applying 
the potential of new technologies to  Smart digital 
 5G testing in Bari and Matera (pag. 37)
improving the quality and range of medical  community 
 Smart Health Service (pag. 37)
services for people, while reducing  enabler
healthcare costs and making them more 
efficient. 
With #GetDigital, we are promoting new   Fastweb Digital Academy (pag. 42)
digital skills and aptitudes, in order to  Smart digital 
 Fastweb4School (pag. 44)
tangibly contribute at all levels to the  community 
 Digital IQ (pag. 45)
development of digital skills in Italy, for  enabler
truly inclusive digital development.  Digital Well-being (pag. 46)
Protecting diversity and promoting gender 
equality are principles that we intend to   Supporting Women (pag. 79)
uphold ever more actively, starting with a  Work and   Inspiring Girls (pag. 79)
series of initiatives to highlight and guide  inclusion  STEM in the city (pag. 42)
women’s talent, especially in the digital   Participation to Elle Active (pag. 43)
world. 
We are committed to using energy  Responsibility 
efficiently through energy saving initiatives  and   Fastweb’s energy consumption (pag. 85)
and the use of renewable sources, which   Sustainability Label requirements definition 
environmental 
now account for 100% of direct electricity  (pag. 90)
sustainability
procurement. 
26 Sustainability at Fastweb. For a present connected to the future