SDG Fastweb’s contribution Pillar The key projects
We are aware that our company’s success 
is tied to the passion, skills and ideas of   Fastweb’s contribution to the Country (pag. 28)
its over 2,500 people. This is why Fastweb   Talent recruitment (pag. 68)
Work and 
is committed to creating a positive and   Feedback and engagement (pag. 73)
inclusion
attractive work environment that makes   Welfare and work-life balance (pag. 76)
the most of talent and is open to dialogue   Fastweb Digital Academy (pag. 42)
and involvement.
Through projects to expand and 
strengthen the telecommunications 
infrastructure and investments in   Network expansion and strengthening (pag. 32)
Smart digital 
technological innovation, we actively   The 5G Project (pag. 36)
community 
contribute to Internet access and digital   WOW FI (pag. 34)
enabler
development throughout the country,   ICT for sustainable development (pag. 40)
promoting convergent, high-quality 
solutions. 
With 5G service testing in Bari, Matera and 
Rome, our company is an integral part 
in the transformation of the cities of the  Smart digital   5G testing in Bari and Matera (pag. 37)
future. The aim is to develop new services  community   5G development protocol with the City of 
and applications suited to smarter,  enabler Rome (pag. 39)
more people-oriented cities with lower 
environmental impacts. 
By monitoring greenhouse gas emissions 
in all stages of the value chain, our  Responsibility 
company is committed to tracking its  and   Fastweb’s Carbon Footprint (pag. 88)
impact on climate change. The aim is to   Sustainability Label requirements definition 
environmental 
develop services that drive the shift to a  (pag. 90)
sustainability
low-environmental impact development 
model. 
 Fastweb Digital Academy (pag. 42)
Many of the projects kicked off during   5G testing in Bari and Matera (pag. 37)
the year were created through Fastweb’s   Fastweb4School (pag. 44)
partnerships with other companies,  Transversal  Digital Well-being (pag. 46)
bodies and institutional players with   Initiatives for the Country (pag. 91)
goal
which it has forged fruitful relationships   ICT for sustainable development (pag. 40)
led by the shared pursuit of sustainable   WOW FI (pag. 34)
development goals.  Sustainability label requirements definition 
(pag. 90)
Sustainability at Fastweb. For a present connected to the future 27