We strove for continuity in the face of these changes  importance of individual efforts to achieve the objectives of 
in 2018, including in the area of “Trusted and lean  sustainable development. 
customer partner”. For our customers, we confirmed 
our commitment to quality, listening and transparency,   The steps taken this year in these areas demonstrate 
which we believe are crucial to our company’s long- how Fastweb is a company that creates value not only 
term competitiveness. Through five new chapters in the  for its shareholders and employees, but for the country 
#Nientecomeprima strategy, like nothing before, we have  as a whole. This year, have decided to measure this value 
radically improved our offer and services, making them  by assessing the direct, indirect and induced impacts 
increasingly simpler and clearer for users. The market  of our organization. We are talking about over 2 billion 
continues to reward us for this approach, which we plan  euro in procurement and investments in 2018, which 
to uphold and strengthen in the years to come, completely  generated more than 34 thousands direct and indirect 
revolutionizing the ways in which we interact with our  jobs, contributing 3 billion euro to GDP and 544,2 million 
customers, based on trust and service quality.  euro in taxes paid. These are significant figures that 
underscore the importance of our company and our sector 
At Fastweb, we are aware that this transformation has  as drivers for national growth and employment. We are 
been possible solely through our people’s talent and  proud of these figures, which mark the boundaries of our 
ability to innovate, and this is why we continued to  responsibility and our commitment today and tomorrow 
make our company’s innovation a way of life again this  for sustainable development, a field in which we intend to 
year. “Working smart” is a new way of working, based  remain one step ahead, making the most of the potential of 
on individual responsibility, valuing talent, involving  new technologies.
people in the life of the company, flexibility and including 
diversity, to co-design our company’s future together with 
our employees, as we have done this year for the new, 
futuristic offices in Milan.  Urs Schaeppi
Chairman of the Board of Directors
One last project of which we are particularly proud relates 
to environmental protection. For years we have monitored 
our impact in terms of climate change in order to 
progressively reduce our carbon footprint. With the launch 
of our new “Fastweb for Sustainability” brand, we will  Alberto Calcagno 
offer customers the chance to purchase our products and  Chief Executive Officer
services based on their environmental benefits (reduction 
of CO emissions), thereby helping people understand the 
2
Alberto Calcagno