3.1  OUR CONTRIBUTION TO DIGITALIZATION:  
  CONSTANT INNOVATION
Fastweb’s business strategy has always focused on 
The scenario: digitalization in Italy its goal of innovating and offering the best possible 
Internet experience: this is why we offer services that are 
Digitalization in Italy presents both progress  synonymous with researching, focusing on and listening.
and stagnation: in the past year, despite the 
considerable expansion of coverage and  These founding principles translate into a path to 
investments to bridge the country’s infrastructural  innovation based on increasing investments for the 
gap with the rest of Europe, Italians lag behind in  development of avant-garde technological solutions, 
the adoption and use of digital solutions. such as 5G, continuous upgrades to existing 
infrastructure, customer centrality and an excellent 
service experience.
87%
It is through these actions that Fastweb has 
implemented its mission of ‘enriching life and 
Of Italian households are covered by NGA  work through the Internet’, providing a tangible 
landline networks with connection speeds of up  contribution to digital development in Italy.
to 100 Mbps. This makes Italy 13th in Europe in 
2017, up 10 positions from 23rd in 2016.10
INFRASTRUCTURAL DEVELOPMENT  
AND NEW GENERATION NETWORKS 
€3.6  
In 2018 Fastweb continued to invest in expanding and 
 BILLION
strengthening its infrastructure as provided for in the 
FTTN and FTTH network development plans, in line 
Of resources allocated for stage 2 of the ultra-
with the “National Ultra-Broadband Plan” to meet the 
broadband plan.10
infrastructure goals of the European Digital Agenda. In 
particular, through the company co-owned with TIM 
5G Flash Fiber S.r.l., Fastweb has continued to implement 
the FTTH network coverage expansion plan in 29 cities11, 
reaching a total of around 4 million of homes/business 
with connection speeds of up to 1 Gigabit per second. 
Italy is a pioneer in 5G mobile technology thanks 
to testing undertaken in various cities by both the 
At the same time, the company has continued to 
government and private operators.10
expand the Fiber To The Node (FTTN) network, which 
reached over 22,000 cabinets in around 130 cities in 
12% 2018, with a connection speed of up to 200 Megabit per 
second.
Of Italian homes have landline Internet connections 
at speeds of at least 30 Mbps (fast broadband).10
10. DESI 2018 - https://ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/en/desi
11. The cities reached with Flash Fiber FTTH connections are now: Ancona, Bari, Bergamo, Bologna, Brescia, Catania, Florence, Genoa, Messina, Modena, Monza, Naples, Padua, 
Palermo, Parma, Perugia, Pescara, Prato, Reggio Calabria, Reggio Emilia, Rome, Siena, Salerno, Turin, Trento, Trieste, Venice, Verona and Vicenza. Milan is not included on 
the list of the 29 major Italian cities, as it is not yet covered by FTTH technology.
32 Smart digital community enabler