Again this year, the company remained highly focused 
The Fastweb network: how it works on Internet network access technologies to provide 
its customers with service quality in line with the best 
The landline network connections essentially consist  market standards in terms of Internet connection and 
of a cable linking the user’s home or business  voice speed, performance, reliability and continuity. In 
to the cabinet. In turn, the cabinet is connected  2018, the technological upgrade involved roughly 300 
to a data traffic station. The type of connection  thousand customers, who were able to make use of 
between the various network elements, which may  the best access technology available in their homes 
be via copper wires (DSL) or fiber, determine their  or offices (74 thousand via optical fiber). Thanks to 
capacity in terms of connection speed.  this plan, at the end of 2018, 8 million homes and 
businesses are active on Fastweb’s ultra-broadband 
Fiber optic cable, which can handle a higher band  infrastructure. 
of frequencies than copper, produces the best 
digital data transmission capacity performance.  In addition to working to improve the coverage ensured 
The connection type is defined by the type of  by its network infrastructure, Fastweb has expanded 
technologies and cables used.  the coverage of its connection services through VULA 
(Virtual Unbundling Line Access) and Bitstream NGA 
FTTN (Fiber to the Node) refers to connections  (New Generation Access) infrastructure. 
in which fiber optics run from the station to the 
cabinet, thereby retaining the copper wires only in  With these types of ultra-broadband connection, 
the last section from cabinet to the user’s home  other operators provide Fastweb with certain sections 
or business. Generally with this solution, the  of the network between the central station and end 
copper section never exceeds 250 meters and,  user. Thanks to this new infrastructure, Fastweb 
therefore, does not significantly impact the signal  now reaches roughly 14 million homes/businesses, 
transmission speed. in addition to the 8 million with access from the 
proprietary infrastructure, for total coverage of over 22 
FTTH (Fiber to the Home) refers to all connections  million of homes/businesses. 
in which fiber optics cover the entire line from the 
station to the user’s home or business. Finally, during the year, Fastweb has invested in the 
completion of the FON network, with a transmission 
GPON (Gigabit Passive Optical Network) is a recently  grid covering roughly 7,500 km throughout the country. 
developed and even more recently implemented  The new infrastructure, established in 2017 through 
FTTH technology, aimed at optimizing network  a partnership with Huawei, is the first fully resilient 
infrastructure and offering users avant-garde  network capable of ensuring service continuity in the 
connection speeds (up to 1 Gbps). event of temporary interruptions. The high degree 
of flexibility, in terms of resilience, scalability and 
simplification for both the network itself and service 
FTTN
provision processes, and the high degree of security 
make the FON network ideal for the transmission of 
<250m.
Fastweb’s Backbone IP and high-capacity international 
Node connectivity services between Europe, the Middle East, 
FTTH Asia and Africa transiting through Sicily. Furthermore, 
the FON network is also open to high-capacity 
Enterprise connectivity and other types of services.
Node
copper wire
fiber optics
Smart digital community enabler 33