  WOW FI: ITALY’S LARGEST WI-FI 
FON, the Flexible Optical Network, is a transport  NETWORK
network created using fully resilient WDM 
(Wavelength Division Multiplexing) and OTN (Optical  During the year, many investments have related to 
Transport Network) photonic technologies capable  WOW FI, the free open wi-fi service available to Fastweb 
of ensuring service continuity through the ASON  customers. The company has increased the number of 
(Automatically Switched Optical Network) which  hotspots in major Italian cities, reaching a total of 1,400 
offers users different service levels and high-speed  hotspots. Customers also appreciate the quality of this 
connections through the flexible and automatic  service and continue to confirm their participation in 
re-routing of data traffic in the event of temporary  the network, doubling the number of users from 2017 to 
interruptions. This recently developed infrastructure  2018. This has made it possible for Fastweb to expand 
can multiply the transmission capacity of a single  WOW FI coverage, extending it to all the cities in which 
optical fiber by 80 times, activate optical transport  Fastweb offers its services, from metropolitan areas to 
at 200 Gb per second and reaching distances of  small towns, bringing the number of homespots to 1.8 
over 2,500 km with optical transmission of 100Gb  million.
per second. 
The project has also entailed partnerships with public 
and private players with which it has signed protocols 
NEW TECHNOLOGIES FOR CONVERGENCE  of understanding giving Fastweb the chance to improve 
AND DIGITALIZATION WOW FI coverage, and protocol signatories the chance 
to share, in the areas and spaces covered by the 
“Everywhere, everything, everyone” is the formula that in  agreement, a free, public high-quality wi-fi service with 
recent years has reflected the company’s commitment  residents or users. 
to ensuring increasingly convergent services for simple, 
immediate and fast Internet access anywhere and to  WOW FI is now the largest wi-fi network in Italy: 
meet any need.  coverage has increasingly expanded over time, 
now reaching all the towns in Italy where  
To Fastweb, convergence means offering the best  services are available.
available technology - whether on the fixed, mobile or   
wi-fi network - regardless of where users are and what  In this context, Fastweb has, for example, begun 
Internet functions they use, and improving customers’  testing services with ATM (Azienda Trasporti 
connection experience, at a time when demand for online  Milanesi) entailing the installation of wi-fi hotspots 
content is continuously growing.  on the platforms and levels of the Milanese metro 
stops Duomo, San Babila and Cadorna, where, since 
We work every day to improve customers’  February, a wi-fi service is available at no charge to 
connection experience to meet increasing  Fastweb customers who subscribe to the WOW FI 
demand to use online content. service and transport passengers who have logged on 
  to the network. 
During the year, the company has decided to invest 
in a number of different activities in order to fulfil its  Given the success of this project, Fastweb’s next 
commitment: from consolidating its presence on the  objective is to expand the wireless network to all 
mobile segment of the market, to extending open wi-fi  stations on the metro line and to begin testing on bus 
solutions in urban centers and the WOW FI service, up  and tram routes as well. 
to the increasingly numerous 5G tests launched, 5G 
being a technology that could alone revolutionize the  Similarly, Fastweb has signed three new protocols of 
world in which we live, produce and work.  understanding with: the Lecce municipal authorities, 
AMTAB (the public transport company in Bari) and the 
In the mobile world, Fastweb is a Full Mobile Virtual  Rome library service. Finally, Fastweb, has participated 
Network Operator (Full MVNO), providing its customers  in the cabling - via Symbiosis wi-fi hotspots - of the 
with quality, wide network coverage (roughly 98% of the  new smart district that will house the company’s new 
Italian population) and access to last-generation 4G  headquarters beginning in 2019, providing free wi-fi 
and 4G Plus mobile services. access to users from the new Piazza Olivetti as well.
34 Smart digital community enabler