reality to train technicians and  synergies, develop additional smart 
facilitate machinery maintenance. A  industry applications, such as:
specific application connected to a 
Smart Helmet - a helmet equipped   Asset Tracking for monitoring via 
with virtual viewers - via the 5G  using sensors to detect the real-
network, guides expert operators  time location of company assets 
in real time during all maintenance  and machinery and to improve 
and training on the engine, making  logistics within the facilities;
it more rapid and effective. 
 Smart Maintenance, using a 
In addition, using the 5G network,  wireless network of sensors 
technicians may go online to make  to monitor devices in the 
  video calls using Skype and consult  production facilities for predictive 
  with their colleagues and experts  maintenance;
  video remotely. Furthermore, the 
INDUSTRY 4.0  company’s customers may use the   Smart Safety, i.e., the use of 
Augmented Reality applied to  same device to carry out simpler  systems to verify that individual 
Industry 4.0  engine maintenance on their own.  protective devices have 
The service, provided for Isotta  been properly distributed in 
Fraschini Motori, a ship engine  Other projects have begun in  accordance with occupational 
manufacturer, will use augmented  the same field and will, through  safety legislation.
SMART PORT  identify potential suspects, while, on  people or recognize their faces. The 
Security and access control at the  the other, providing the harbor master  system also makes it possible to 
Bari port  with an alternative to counting  manage security procedures and to 
At the Bari port, in collaboration with  passengers on water vessels, which  alert the police or set off an alarm. 
Leonardo and Bosch and with the  is currently done manually and is, 
support of the Southern Adriatic  therefore, at risk of error. In addition, within the Bari port, 
Sea Port Authority and the bodies  the consortium will introduce 
responsible for port security (the  Both services are based on an open  a sensor-based environmental 
harbor master, Tax Police and State  system of sensors, video cameras,  monitoring and control system to 
Police), the consortium is developing  wearable devices, terminals, drones  gather information and prevent 
a security and control monitoring  and movable gates that involve, via  potential risks tied to, for example, 
system. There are two objectives:  the 5G network, information on a  fuel spillage, weather conditions 
on one hand, offering the port police  centralized command and control  or pollution due to the transport of 
a face recognition tool to help them  platform to count the number of  containers by lorries.
KEY FIGURES
55 10 60
 PARTNERS  AREAS OF APPLICATION  MILLION EUROS
3 lead players With over 70 use cases to be  In investments by  
7 universities and research centers tested in Bari and Matera the lead companies
11 public bodies involved Total value of the project  
34 companies over four years
38 Smart digital community enabler