The Fastweb model. 
Always a step ahead
1.1  ABOUT FASTWEB
Fastweb is the largest alternative landline operator in  Fastweb is present throughout the country with sites, 
Italy and one of the leading players in the European  offices, equipment rooms and a network of stores 
ultra-broadband market. Since its inception in Milan in  that currently comprises over 1,000 stores, including 
1999, pursuing the innovative project of building a fiber  flagship stores, franchise stores and authorized 
optic network and adopting the IP protocol for voice,  dealers.The company has been part of the Swisscom 
data and video transmission, Fastweb has focused on  group since September 2007 and is managed and 
innovation and network infrastructure for the supply of  coordinated by Swisscom AG through its subsidiary 
ultra-broadband services of the highest quality.  Swisscom Italia S.r.l. 
The company has developed a national fiber-optic  Since 2014 Fastweb has held a 60% interest in the 
network, reaching 8 million households and businesses  joint-stock consortium company QXN, which was 
with its own proprietary network and, overall, 22 million  established with the aim of providing Qualified 
property units in more than 1,000 municipalities, with  eXchange Network infrastructure to the Italian public 
connection speed of up to 1 Gigabit per second in major  authorities.
cities. In 2018 Fastweb invested 28% of the company’s 
turnover in network expansion and service innovation.  Fastweb owns minority interests in Flash Fiber (20%) 
This is an unprecedented percentage in the European  and Open Hub Med (11%). Flash Fiber is the strategic 
telecommunications scenario, equaling Euro 593 million. joint venture between Telecom Italia and Fastweb to 
promote the creation of ultra-broadband infrastructure 
Thanks to its network’s architecture and flexibility,  with FTTH (Fiber To The Home) technology in major 
Fastweb has diversified and enriched the offer to more  Italian cities (see Chapter 2). Open Hub Med (OHM) 
than 2.5 million customers to provide increasingly  is the consortium that aspires to be the first neutral 
convergent services. The goal is not only the provision  hub in Italy for the exchange of communications in 
of innovative services, but also Internet access and use  the Mediterranean area between Africa, Middle East, 
anytime anywhere: in the office when using a computer,  Asia and the rest of the world, benefiting from Sicily’s 
on the go via smartphone or at home through the  geographical position to route part of this traffic to the 
devices connected to the home network.  main European hubs. 
As part of the mobile network services, in January 2017  On 16 November 2018, an agreement was signed with 
Fastweb became a Full MVNO operator, offering its  Tiscali S.p.A. to acquire the license for 40 Mhz in the 3.5 
customers a latest generation mobile service based on 4G  Ghz band and the fixed wireless access (FWA) business 
and 4G Plus technology. By 2020 mobile services will be  unit consisting of, among other assets, roughly 835 
enhanced through a new-generation 5G infrastructure. base transceiver station towers, the related equipment 
and 33 employees with network management 
In addition to voice, data and mobile services, Fastweb  expertise. 
offers connectivity services and advanced ICT services, 
such as housing, cloud computing, security and unified  On 7 August 2018, a new company we set up: Fastweb 
communications, to companies of all sizes, from start- Air S.r.l., wholly owned by Fastweb S.p.A., and which, on 
ups to small and medium-sized businesses, from large  16 November 2018, absorbed the aforementioned FWA 
companies to the public sector.  business unit.
4 The Fastweb model. Always a step ahead