4.1  #NIENTECOMEPRIMA: “LIKE NOTHING BEFORE” - MEANING  
  TRANSPARENT AND SIMPLE OFFERS AND SERVICES
“#nientecomeprima”, which is Italian for Like nothing  commitment to transparency to service quality and, 
before, is the formula that Fastweb has chosen to promote  in general, to relationships with customers in order to 
the radical change in the fixed and mobile telephony  revolutionize the way in which the company and users 
market, with an increasingly convergent approach based on  interact, based on trust and listening to feedback. 
transparency, simplicity and consumer freedom.
Through “#nientecomeprima” our company 
Mainly pursued by the Consumer segment up until now,  continues to promote and strengthen a new way 
this strategy was launched in 2017 and consolidated  of interacting with users based on trust and 
throughout 2018, as the company continues to  listening to feedback.
manage prices transparently and is now extending its   
#nientecomeprima
Fastweb is revolutionizing the telecommunications market with a series of unique landline and mobile initiatives, 
leading to increasingly more transparency on a market filled with deals and hidden charges.
€ WSYEOHEUA I TPS A YWYOHUA T  NO BONDS CCNUUEWRSTR COEUNMSTET ROSM =E RS 4DRCGUEISS SMCITDOOOEUBMNNILTETERISA S LF OR  TPTICNHHRATLOEAEL TVORS IINNDNALECYTRL I UODNEASL  
NLITIOKTEH TIRNYGI NG  FAPILRXLIEC-DIEN, CLUSIVE  UTINOP A GF RICBALEDIRCE K  TSRPAEENDSPARENT  YIASON EUDAR US CNY,LL SOIMAUFIDTE E D
The initiatives rolled out in 2017 were confirmed in  “Trust” has eliminated additional costs for high-speed 
2018 and will continue in the years to come.  connection options and introduced billing by calendar 
month, making bills easier to read. This is the first fixed 
For mobile telephone service customers, “Start”, the  network offer with a flat rate in the bill that includes 
first initiative, eliminates extra service costs (e.g., voice  all activation and related costs, plus the FASTGate 
mail, automatic call-back, credit balance checks),  modem and guarantees the fastest speed available. In 
call connection fees and contract term restrictions  addition, it eliminates all contract term restrictions for 
and allows users to use their traffic minutes in 60  fixed network customers, letting them decide when to 
international destinations and connect to the WOW FI  terminate their contracts with Fastweb. 
network for mobile internet without using up the data 
traffic Gigabytes in their package.  We are the only player on the Italian market  
with no restrictions for fixed or mobile  
“Change” confirms the company’s commitment to  telephony customers.
eliminating all extra costs in customers’ bills for the sake   
of simplicity and transparency. This commitment can  “More” gives fixed network customers the chance to ask 
be summed up in the slogan “What you see is what you  to switch to fiber as soon as it is available, without any 
pay” and gives current customers access to new offers,  additional charge, and all they need to do is request the 
with the same benefits that new customers enjoy.  switch on the MyFASTPage or using the MyFastweb app.
The initiatives rolled out in 2018 began with “Try”, in  With the sixth initiative in this strategy, “Speed”, 
which Fastweb introduced the “Fastweb Mobile Trial”,  Fastweb became the only Italian player to tell 
whereby customers can try out Fastweb’s mobile  customers the exact speed of their home connection 
service for free, without any restrictions or fines.  transparently and directly in their contract. Moreover, 
They can request and enable their SIM card using the  after the line is activated, an operator calls each 
MyFastweb app or on the company’s website: the first  customer to check that the speed coincides with 
month of service is free, after which customers may  that indicated in the contract. If it is slower, the 
decide whether to renew the service or not.  customer may withdraw from the contract without any 
50 Trusted and lean customer partner