4.2  A CONTINUOUSLY EVOLVING OFFER
This year, the market strategies in Fastweb’s three  well, where Fastweb has been the only Italian player to 
business segments remained focus on customers and  see its market share up 2% both in the Top/Executive 
the development of products and services to meet their  segment (from 29% to 31%) and the Medium segment 
requests and needs: the Consumer, Micro Business  (from 18% to 20%). 
(freelance professionals) and Small Business segment, 
which includes households, professionals, micro- This growth is due to its core service consolidation 
businesses and small businesses, the Enterprise segment,  strategy, which is driving corporate customers’ faster 
for medium-size companies, large companies and the  adoption of digital services and customer loyalty. 
public authorities - and the Wholesale segment which  Projects and testing in the innovative fields of 5G, the 
consists of connection services for OLOs (other licensed  Internet of Things, software-defined networking19, 
operators, i.e., those that are not major market players).  security and the cloud have been crucial to this growth. 
Fastweb has rolled out two new cloud-based solutions 
Fastweb remained a leader in the Consumer, Micro  for IT security in particular: FAST Security 360° Cloud, 
Business and Small Business market thanks to its  which fully protects the entire company network 
strategy based on quality, transparency and solutions  against cyber attacks, and FAST Security Advanced 
that are increasingly geared towards convergence, as  Protection, a new generation antivirus that defends 
described earlier in this report. against both traditional viruses and sophisticated 
attacks like malware and zero-day threats. 
The ongoing expansion of Fastweb’s proprietary fiber 
optic infrastructure, the option it gives customers to  In addition, the company has introduced the Fast SIEM 
switch over to more advanced technology when it  service, which provides customers with a platform that 
becomes available without any charge or cost increase,  collects, stores and analyzes IT system and network 
and the advantages offered by the various areas of  device logs in an integrated, automated manner, 
#nientecomeprima are only a few of the policies that  significantly reducing management costs and ensuring 
have enabled Fastweb to retain its market share and  integrity, confidentiality and the inalterability of the 
attract more than 2.5 million customers.  collected data. Finally, to offer a service that genuinely 
covers 360 degrees and support customers in their 
It has also reached significant partnerships in this  selection and management of the most sophisticated 
business segment: in addition to the long-standing  solutions, a team of highly-skilled Security Service 
partnership with Sky, Fastweb has introduced a joint  Managers has been created to provide specific advice 
offer with Eni, the utility company, for residential  on all cyber security matters. As for cloud solutions, 
customers, for Fastweb Internet services and Eni Gas e  2018 saw the consolidation of the services offered and 
Luce electricity and natural gas services with generous  dramatic growth in new customers, thanks to the ability 
discounts and benefits.  to direct various ICT needs on a wider range of the 
Enterprise segment. 
In the Business segment (for freelance professionals 
and small businesses), Fastweb has continued to  In 2018, the new European data protection regulation 
simplify its landline offer for micro businesses, giving  known as the GDPR went into effect, and to help its 
them an easy choice between two set plans (Business  customers comply with the GDPR, Fastweb has created 
Internet and Business Class). Customers with ADSL  Fast GDPR Suite, an integrated solution designed to 
and Bitstream connections will continue to enjoy a  simplify and speed up the compliance process.
special monthly rate until they migrate to the fiber optic 
network when it reaches them. This new solution is extremely clear and transparent, 
as it provides a gap analysis and an action plan based 
To help companies digitalize and switch over to cloud  on an in-depth assessment of company systems and 
solutions, the small business portfolio has expanded to  procedures. 
include two new services: a platform to help customers 
promote their business online and storage-as-a-service  Important new solutions were also unveiled in the 
for the creation of data storage space on the cloud.  company core services, including one in particular that is 
In March 2018, Fastweb responded to the needs of  the first of its kind on the Italian Enterprise market: SD-
freelancers and small businesses with its new Business  WAN Carrier Grade transforms company networks into 
Freedom offer, offering more minutes and gigabytes.  programmable software platforms that are extremely 
scalable and integrated in the Fastweb’s national 
Results remain positive in the Enterprise market as  network infrastructure, allowing customers to configure 
19. Software-defined networking (SDN) technology is a new cloud computing approach to network architecture that facilitates administration and configuration to improve 
performance and facilitate monitoring.
52 Trusted and lean customer partner