During the year, Fastweb remained committed  To score the company’s performance, customers were 
to improving and simplifying its customers’ user  divided into three categories:
experience in all interactions with Fastweb. It improved 
certain MyFASTPage functions - the restricted area   Promoters (score of 9-10): loyal customers who 
for customers where they can access all their account  will continue to purchase the services and will 
information. Indeed, since 2018, they can ask to  recommend them to others;
upgrade to fiber as soon as it becomes available in 
just one click, and the subscription process for mobile   Passive customers (score of 7-8): customers who 
telephony services and the SIM card top-up procedure  are satisfied but indifferent, and could be potentially 
have also been streamlined.  influenced by competitors’ offers;
New functions have been added to the MyFastweb app   Detractors (score of 0-6): unsatisfied customers who 
as well, making it easier to sign up for new offers for  could damage the company by spreading negative 
both fixed and mobile telephony services and to access  word-of-mouth.
liveFAST from the app. In addition, mobile telephone 
customers can now use a simplified version of the app  The index is calculated as the difference between 
that enables them, thanks to SIM authentication, view  the percentage of Promoters and the percentage 
how much credit they have used (voice minutes, data  of Detractors and is analyzed considering both the 
traffic and text messages) without needing to enter their  customer’s overall experience with Fastweb (relational 
username and password. Finally, interfacing with the  NPS) and their specific interaction (transactional NPS). 
FASTGate modem is now more user-friendly and direct.
The frequency of the surveys varies from weekly to 
New solutions were also created in 2018: a widget to  half-yearly based on the parameter analyzed and the 
monitor your mobile telephone minutes directly on the  customer group considered. In addition to the internal 
primary screen of your smartphone and the new My  surveys, benchmark analyses are carried out each 
ICCID Seriale SIM app to view you SIM’s serial number  quarter.
without having to remove it from your phone.
In recent years, its strategy of focusing on customers, 
To gauge the effects of this new business strategy  combined with ongoing investments to improve the 
and the new offers on customer satisfaction, again  quality and performance of services, has enabled Fastweb 
in 2018, Fastweb used the net promoter score (NPS),  to stand out as one of the fixed network operators most 
a customer loyalty index developed on the basis of  frequently recommended by residential customers in Italy: 
response that customers gave to the question “How  in particular, again in 2018, the findings emphasized 
likely is it that you would recommend the X company to  that Fastweb enjoys a 10% advantage above major 
a friend or colleague?” on a scale of 1 to 10. national telecommunications players.
Trusted and lean customer partner 55