4.5  SETTLEMENT PROCEDURE
Regulations governing disputes relating to electronic  venues. In particular, users who intend to file a claim for 
communications between users and operators require  the mandatory settlement attempt, to either settle the 
the parties to attempt settlement.  dispute or take temporary action may file their claim 
online at http://conciliaweb.agcom.it. 
Fastweb participates in settlement procedures 
to manage and rapidly resolve any disputes with  In accordance with that established by the AGCOM 
customers out of court. regulation 269/18/CONS, Fastweb published a 
notice on its home page about AGCOM’s launch of 
In most cases, applications for settlement are managed  ConciliaWeb.
offices of the Co.Re.Com. (Regional Committees for 
Communications: these are AGCOM’s regional bodies  In 2018, over 12,500 settlement claims were managed 
that ensure governance, guarantee and control of  via Co.Re.Com, and approximately 9,251 of the cases 
Agcom’s own communication system throughout Italy.  were discussed during the year. Of these, 7,235 
(78%) were settled with a positive report, i.e., to the 
The settlement procedure through Co.Re.Com involves  customer’s full satisfaction.20
the participation of the parties before a mediator, with a 
settlement agreement that is legally enforceable. The other settlement practice most often used is ADR 
(alternative dispute resolution), a regulated dispute 
In July 2018, the new Regulation for the settlement of  resolution procedure with the advantage of being a 
disputes between users and electronic communications  fast, free, simple and out-of-court solution to disputes 
operators (regulation no. 203/18/CONS, amended  between consumers and businesses. 
by regulation no. 296/18/CONS) went into force, 
introducing a new digital platform for the management  ADR, which was introduced in the Italian Consumers 
of settlement procedures, called “ConciliaWeb”. It  Code with Legislative Decree no. 130/2015, offers a 
simplifies the procedure for making claims and does  number of different advantages over the fair settlement 
not require users to physically appear at the settlement  procedure previously in place, encouraging greater 
20. The data are updated to 14 January 2019.
Trusted and lean customer partner 57