In its cyber security efforts, Fastweb works at several  investment strategies.
levels to prevent any loss or damage to data and, in the 
event of incidents, to limit damage and recover normal  In addition, Fastweb participated in the first edition of 
company operations as rapidly as possible.  the Cyber Conference in Rome and Milan organized by 
Trend Micro, a global leader in data security and cyber 
Through a specific internal division, the company  security solutions for companies. These events involved 
constantly monitors developments in legislation and  a total of 500 people, including telecommunications 
technology to readily adapt and update its business  operators, consumers and companies. Fastweb 
models. Since 2007, Fastweb is ISO 27001 certified  participated in the “System Integration on State” round 
for information security management, and it has  table with major Italian cyber security operators to 
supplemented this certification with other more  discuss hot information security issues by proposing 
specific certificates in the past few years. Indeed, in  specific solutions. 
2016, Fastweb obtained ISO 27018 certification for 
cloud privacy and, in 2018, it obtained a certificate  Fastweb also demonstrated its cyber security 
of compliance with ISO 27017, which introduces  commitment by guiding customers as they 
guidelines for specific information security controls  progressively reinforce their defense systems, through 
applicable to cloud service providers, and a certificate  avant-garde solutions and offers tailored to the 
of compliance with ISO 27035, which provides guidance  different needs of business customers (see paragraph 
on information security incident management and  4.2 of this chapter).
prevention (see chapter 1).
PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION
To further strengthen the culture of cyber security 
within the company, during the year, Fastweb  Personal data protection is of vital importance to the 
also promoted various awareness campaigns for  telecommunications sector and an aspect to which 
employees. They included “YOU - the most secure  Fastweb has always devoted its utmost attention. Since 
technology is you” for all employees, launched on  2016, the company has held a certificate of conformity 
Agorà, the company’s Intranet. The “YOU” campaign  with ISO 27018 for the protection of personally 
was publicized using various means, from six videos  identifiable information in public clouds, guaranteeing 
in which Fastweb employees appeared as actors and  compliance with privacy standards in cloud computing 
podcasts written and narrated by an expert, to an  services and constituting the best practices concerning 
online quiz and a small treasure hunt. In addition to  personal data protection by public cloud providers. 
this campaign, leaflets were published on Agorà with 
useful tips and guides on how to manage all sensitive  In 2016, Regulation (EU) 2016/679, known as the GDPR, 
information securely.  was approved, updating personal data processing 
rules. Among other things, the GDPR specifically 
Cyber Security Hub was another awareness driver, a  emphasizes the principle of accountability, whereby 
full day devoted to cyber security and involving around  the data controller must adopt, and always be able to 
150 employees, during which cyber security experts  demonstrate that it has adopted, appropriate technical or 
discussed contemporary issues related to online  organizational measures to ensure that the processing is 
security. During this event, employees learned about the  effectively carried out in accordance with the Regulation. 
fundamental steps in the history of the Internet, to gain  The protection of personal data must be incorporated 
an understanding of the reasons for the birth of online  in business processes from the start of their design 
crime and privacy violations. In addition, the human  (privacy by design) and the data processing must be 
factor was examined, diversifying the “seven sins”  minimized by default (privacy by default). The Regulation 
that commonly lead someone to become a victim of a  also gave data subjects additional rights, such as the 
cyberattack. right to data portability and the right to be forgotten. 
Fastweb has also rolled out a series of local initiatives  Between 2017 and 2018, as the date when the 
to raise more awareness of the importance of cyber  Regulation would take full effect approached, Fastweb 
security at customer and market level. In particular,  carried out activities for compliance with the new 
in April and May 2018, it held two editions of “Digital  legislation, planning to update constantly over time, 
Defense” for customers, dealing with IT security on  to ensure that data are always processed correctly 
the cloud, data backup and personal data protection.  and are protected by adequate security measures. 
Not only did the meetings inform participants on cyber  The GDPR organizational model has updated and/or 
security issues, but they also made it possible to gain  defined roles within the company, processes to support 
feedback from customers on their specific needs,  business functions in the design and implementation 
identifying potential priorities on which to develop  of products and services up to the highest protection 
60 Trusted and lean customer partner