standards, those to guarantee prompt cooperation  In October 2017, the Board of Directors appointed 
with the Personal Data Protection Authority and to  the Data Protection Officer (DPO), the new position 
guarantee the rights of data subjects. required by the GDPR. The DPO is responsible for 
overseeing management of personal data processing 
To inform and sensitize employees about the  and, accordingly the protection of personal data within 
importance of effectively complying with the GDPR  the company, ensuring that the data are processed in 
and its accountability principle, in November 2017, a  accordance with the GDPR.
required initial e-learning course was given, describing 
the main legislative changes and their impact on the  The DPO’s main duties are: 
company. 
 Informing and sensitizing the Data Controller and/or 
In May 2018, when the GDPR went into force, another  Processor and employees who process data about 
e-learning course was held to teach all employees  the obligations arising from the GDPR; 
about the organizational changes made to comply 
with the requirements of the Regulation. The two   Overseeing compliance and the application of the 
courses saw a response rate of 98.08% of the company  requirements of the GDPR; 
population.
 Providing, if requested, an opinion on the data 
Also in keeping with this commitment, from March  protection impact assessment and supervising the 
2017 to May 2018, 20 classroom lessons and webinars  performance of the assessment; 
were offered on general and specific issues for each 
team, targeting roughly 900 people, with around 700   Cooperating with the Personal Data Protection 
people taking part. Authority and acting as a contact for the Authority on 
all data processing related matters;
 Supporting the Controller or Processor in all personal 
data processing activities, including those in 
connection with keeping the data processing log.
Fastweb has published the DPO’s contact information 
(dpo@fastweb.it; dpo@pec.fastweb.it; and the office 
address) in the data protection notice and on the 
available web pages. 
The GDPR requires that a national authority, which in 
Italy is the Personal Data Protection Authority, monitors 
compliance with the Regulation and ensures proper 
data processing and compliance with the fundamental 
rights of people in connection with personal data 
processing.26
The Personal Data Protection Authority’s supervisory 
and monitoring activities include periodic inspections 
on the work of entities that process personal data. 
Following the results of the investigations conducted 
between the end of 2017 and the beginning of 2018, 
for events that occurred before the GDPR was 
implemented and took effect, the Personal Data 
Protection Authority charged Fastweb with violations 
in connection with the telemarketing activities carried 
out by its sales network. Specifically, the alleged 
violations related to, inter alia, how the consent of 
data subjects was managed, the profiling of customer’ 
personal and financial data and commercial contact 
made without consent. Fastweb extinguished the fines 
with payment of reduced amounts. The Personal Data 
Protection Authority then issued an injunction for only 
26. For additional information: http://www.garanteprivacy.it/
Trusted and lean customer partner 61