5.2  ATTRACTING AND DEVELOPING TALENT
ATTRACTING TALENT,   been another way for potential job applicants to learn 
INVESTING IN THE FUTURE about the company. In these webinars, employees 
talk about the projects and activities they have been 
Together, talent and innovation are  involved in personally concerning key issues for 
interlinked drivers of development,  Fastweb. Examples are the FASTGate modem, open 
especially in a continuously evolving industry like  innovation, convergence and 5G and cyber security. 
telecommunications. The webinar videos are posted and publicized on the 
specialized website “Brain at Work” and the company’s 
Together, talent and innovation are interlinked  social network accounts.
drivers of development, and this is why we 
focus intensely on promoting professional  In 2018, the Bicocca University began offering a Data 
development through many initiatives for  Science master’s program in which Fastweb offers its 
students and young job-seekers. data sets, after they have been adequately reprocessed 
and made anonymous, for students to use as the 
In recent years, the company has taken a number of  basis for their work. The program also includes an 
different steps to publicize Fastweb on the job market,  “exchange”: Fastweb managers are invited to speak in 
investing in communications, meetings and orientation  university classrooms, sharing their experience, and 
sessions for students and young job-seekers.  employees can take participate in the training provided 
by university professors. Furthermore, beginning 
First and foremost, it created a special section on  in December 2018, Bicocca University and Turin 
its website titled “Working at Fastweb”, which gives  Polytechnic University students have the opportunity to 
people an idea of what it means to work at Fastweb  work on their thesis directly at the company. 
and describes the company’s values and employee 
initiatives, such as smart working and the welfare  In 2018, specific emphasis was given to welcoming 
program.  newly hired employees at the company. A new 
induction program was kicked off to teach new 
This area also leads to the “Work with us” section,  employees about the company and its culture, to 
which links directly to the Fastweb Digital Recruiting  help them familiarize themselves with Fastweb’s 
platform where people may apply for job openings,  organization. The program is available to all new 
upload their CV and try out the Web Assessment,  employees and lasts for six months, regardless of their 
a series of online tests for the applicant’s initial  level, position and type of contract. In addition to the 
assessment.  Welcome Day and the welcome kit on the Intranet, 
which were rolled out in 2017, Fastweb has provided for 
The tests include Digital IQ (see details in Chapter 3)  additional initiatives, such as the assignment of tutors, 
and help Fastweb find out more about the applicants,  customer care mentorships, mentorships at flagship 
evaluate them and provide personal guidance. Each  stores, intermediate interviews with the relevant 
applicant receives feedback in real time, regardless of  business partner HR departments and the preparation 
the results of the process, and this helps them best  of a dedicated training package. 
focus on their improvement areas. 
For Fastweb, being a sought-after employer means 
Social networks have also played a key role in promoting  increasing new generations’ understanding of the 
the company, along with Fastweb’s partnership with a  professional world. In particular, through student work 
few of Italy’s leading recruitment sites. experience programs, the first project having been 
initiated with Assolombarda in 2016, Fastweb aims 
In addition, the company consolidated its relationship  to introduce students in their third and fourth years of 
with universities through 17 events in various Italian  high school to the world of work. In 2018, the initiative 
cities (Milan, Rome, Bari, Turin, Naples, Catania, Cagliari,  saw the start of 60 two-week work experiences in the 
Cosenza, Albano Laziale and Poggio Mirteto). These  Milan, Rome and Bari offices. During their stay, the high 
17 events included 12 multi-company Career Days and  school students could also tour the company offices 
five university events dedicated exclusively to Fastweb,  and the data centers, to gain a better understanding of 
such as the Recruiting Days held at the Polytechnic  Fastweb’s business. 
University of Bari and the Roma Tre University, in 
which Fastweb employees told students about their  In 2018, a specific web page for the orientation and 
educational background and professional experience.  student work experience was created on the corporate 
website, explaining the main projects for schools and 
The webinars about “ways of working at Fastweb” have  students. With the same objective, during the year, 
68 Work and inclusion