Fastweb also signed a protocol of understanding with  bands based on their level of accountability. Each band 
ANPAL, the national agency for active labor policies,  was assigned a salary range based on the market 
to forge a closer link between school and the private  benchmark.
sector.
The mapping will be provided to the company 
Demonstrating its commitment to projects for the  population so all employees are more aware of their 
2017/18 academic year, in July 2018, the company  role and position within the organization and have a 
received the BAQ, a mark of quality work experience  solid framework for the definition of their career and 
for high school students awarded, which Confindustria  development at Fastweb.
awards to companies that stand apart for offering high 
quality work experience.  Moreover, sharing this analysis is another step towards 
transparency and guaranteeing the application of 
Lastly, another two projects topped off Fastweb’s  merit-based parameters when personnel remuneration 
efforts in work experience for high school students: the  and management policies are defined.
new Digital Work Experience developed in partnership 
with Cariplo Factory, which gave 100 high school  TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
students the chance to participate in the orientation 
and learn about the Fastweb universe (see par. 3.2), and  To retain a set of competencies that is always up 
Push to Open Junior, an orientation program for middle  to technological and market trends, in recent years 
school students, with support for their parents.  Fastweb has based its employee development and 
training activities on the 70-20-10 Model, characterized 
THE PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT PROCESS  by the involvement and accountability of people. With 
this model, only 10% of the activities offered rely on 
The performance assessment system is the launch  formal teaching, while on-the-job experience accounts 
pad for the development of people’s competencies and  for 70% and contact with colleagues, i.e., the social 
the creation of targeted development plans for each of  effect, accounts for 20%. 
them. Each year, the assessment covers all employees 
with open-ended contracts (including apprentices) who  In 2018, the development drivers remained coaching, 
have been with the company for at least six months.  mentoring and the “Tour of Duty”.
The assessment model is based on three performance  In particular, during the year, coaching labs continued. 
areas: professional competencies, the soft skills that  They are structured group development activities in 
characterize life at the company (Be Customer, Be  which participants discuss and share their experiences. 
Simple, Be Decision-Maker, Be Positive, Be Fastweb)  Some employees have been offered individual 
and managerial competencies (Develop People, Lead  coaching, which consists of six months with an in-
Performance, Be inclusive with everyone) for employees  house or external coach to ramp up managerial skills 
with management responsibilities. Employees may  based on a development objective. 
gather feedback not only from their supervisor and 
predecessor (if they have held their position for fewer  On the other hand, mentoring is an eight- to nine-
than six months) but from the colleagues working  month-long program that provides for periodic 
closely with them as well.  meetings between mentor (in-house) and mentees: 
in 2018, this program was expanded and involved 62 
Following the performance review, the most appropriate  resources. 
development and training begin to make the most of 
each employee’s competencies, as described in the  The Tour of Duty program started as a pilot project in 
“Employee training and development” section. 2017 and continued in 2018: it enables participants to 
work in other company divisions than their own. The 
THE REWARDS SYSTEM program is an agreement between the company and 
the employee, in which the employee works for three 
The criteria used to assign rewards began undergoing  months to one year in a different company division, 
a major assessment and revision process in 2018: the  thereby developing new competencies and abilities.
first step was an overall survey of the current system, 
while mapping the roles of a benchmark system for  In 2018, Fastweb invested significantly in development 
the telecommunications market. With the involvement  and managerial training with classroom activities 
of a few company managers, positions were analyzed  focused on developing personal responsibility and 
by family, sub-family and role, and there classified in  the ability to delegate and provide effective and 
Work and inclusion 69