constructive feedback. This program is structured in  The Skillathlon consisted of 65 classroom lessons, 
layers, with 44 sessions for a total of 530 attendees  inspirational speeches, workshops and labs with over 
and 354 people involved, with three main modules:  1300 attendees, and the publication of 2,060 articles in 
Empowering Dialogue, FOM (Fundamentals of  the company training tool available to all employees at 
Management) and Game for Managers.  any time.
Empowering Dialogue was kicked off in 2017, involving  Specific attention was also devoted to professional 
the first layer of Division Directors, and was expanded  training, with classroom lessons constituting roughly 
in 2018 with the extension of all second layer Division  45% of total training provided in 2018. As in previous 
Directors and their staff, to strengthen and reinforce  years, the most important courses included Marketing 
managerial competencies and provide the necessary  Academy, for all staff on the Marketing team, to share 
tools to provide valuable feedback.  with them the main trends in the sector. This initiative 
targeted the marketing group, with a total of 369 
FOM is a training module on the managerial  attendees, and consisted of meetings, testimonies and 
competencies that are fundamental for Fastweb,  workshops on problem solving for a total of 43 hours of 
offered to all first-time coordinators, while the  training per participant.
Game for Managers involved all managers at the 
company, starting with the third layer: in this case, two  Another training course organized during the year was 
days of workshops were held to discuss, including  HR for HR, on working practices and methodologies for 
through games, the characteristics of the three  the Human Capital and Change Management team. 
managerial competencies covered in the performance 
management model (Lead performance, Develop  Another professional training event was for ILEX 
people, Be inclusive with everyone).  speakers, who are Fastweb employees who share their 
knowledge and hold classroom courses open to all 
The Skillathlon was another particularly important  employees. Launched in 2018, ILEX Innovation Journey 
training initiative held in 2018, consisting of a  is a growth and development process consisting of 
series of meetings, workshops and labs to spread a  2018 days of training over two years with the primary 
shared vision of the five skills introduced in the new  aim of providing new solutions to make lessons more 
performance review model that Fastweb adopted at  engaging and effective, with the use of digital tools and 
the end of 2017 with the entire company population.  innovative teaching methods such as gamification.
70 Work and inclusion