5.3  FROM “SMART WORKING” TO “WORKING SMART”
We are committed each and every day to  Over the years, Fastweb has continued to think about 
creating a work environment where people are  the meaning and the potential developments of this 
valued and their perspective is considered.   project, transforming its ideas into the concept of 
This means cultivating a positive, inclusive,  “working smart” and undertaking to revolutionize 
diverse environment in which everyone is   its way of working by focusing on participation, 
free to express their full potential. accountability, efficiency and flexibility, thanks in part 
  to the constant use of new technologies to improve 
Since 2015, and in step with contemporary  communication and company life. 
technological and cultural changes, Fastweb has 
pursued a new approach to thinking about working  Listening and reaching out to workers have been 
styles in the company, starting with a smart working  crucial to the company’s approach. Again in 2018, 
pilot project that is the first of its kind in Italy.   Fastweb continued to reinforce and multiply meetings 
Innovative and flexible, smart working enables workers  and exchanges with workers, not only to improve the 
to decide where they want to work, and provides them  climate within the company and communications with 
with the technological tools they need to complete all  and between people, but also to involve workers in 
their tasks.  the definition of the company’s plans and projects for 
innovation and co-design. 
Not only is smart working aimed at facilitating a 
healthy work/life balance, but it is also meant to  For example, Fastweb proposed the appointment 
change the work culture within the company, with more  of 18 change players to promote a new way of 
flexibility and individual responsibility, and is now a  working. Specifically, in 2018, these change players 
fully integrated way of working that workers are using  focused on effective meetings, a topic that is 
widely, making Fastweb a smart work leader in the  particularly important to people at various levels of the 
Italian telecommunications industry.  organization. All employees’ needs were considered 
through an online survey to which 1,142 people 
responded. Six design thinking workshops were held 
1,761 in which the change players described a few golden 
rules that will be applied on an experimental basis 
over the next few months. 
EMPLOYEES
Considering the success of the first edition and 
69% the innovative ideas that arose, Fastweb intends to 
continue to make the most of these change players 
as catalysts for action and new ideas to spread the 
AUTHORIZED working smart approach throughout the company. 
84% In addition, with the same objective of changing the 
way in which people work, four work groups were 
created in 2018 to update compensation processes 
USERS and develop a lean organization, improve internal 
mechanisms for the delegation of duties and enhance 
and celebrate the results achieved and continuous 
4 feedback: these aspects have been identified as key 
DAYS/MONTH elements in the development of working methods 
AVAILABLE within the company, as they are crucial to the 
accountability and self-awareness of people.
3
DAYS/USED
ON AVERAGE
72 Work and inclusion