The annual survey on employees’   The new Milan office: space used for 
sense of belonging growth and sharing
The 2018 survey sent to all employees focused on  In 2018, work was completed on Fastweb’s new 
two elements: their emotional tie to the company,  Milan office, which will stand in the Symbiosis 
i.e., the trust, admiration and, in general, feelings  smart office district near the Porta Romana railway 
that it instils, and a more rational assessment  station. The office was designed to hold nearly all 
of the company, described considering seven  employees working in Milan, who will now share 
key areas (Performance, Products and Services,  a single hub where they can meet and exchange 
Innovation, Workplace, Governance, Civic  information more easily. 
Responsibility and Leadership).
The building, where operations will begin in 
Approximately 90% of the company population  January 2019, represents a milestone for 
filled in the questionnaire, confirming workers’  Fastweb’s approach to work, and is intended to 
desire to take part in company projects and a sense  encourage a shift in mentality towards flexibility 
of belonging throughout the company. The results  and the achievement of individual objectives, while 
highlighted that the emotional tie to Fastweb is  ensuring ideal working conditions for personal and 
strong, with a score of 78/100; furthermore, over  company well-being.
77% of respondents expressed enthusiasm with 
the company’s strategies.  The innovative nature of this project stems 
from the building’s structure and the solutions 
The survey enabled the company to identify a few  that Fastweb has chosen for its systems and 
improvement areas in terms of the recognition  organization to encourage working smart.
of each individual employee’s contribution, while 
the mechanisms for vertical communications 
and dialogue were scored as highly effective. In 
particular, respondents recognized the value of 
the CEO’s video communications and confirmed  PILLARS
the significant growth in corporate and official 
communication channels.  Build the least possible
 Multifunctional spaces
 No assigned seats
 Paperless office
During the year, Fastweb continued activities to 
TECHNOLOGICAL
engage social ambassadors, an in-house community 
promoting the company’s initiatives on social networks, 
TRENDS
including the hashtag “#befw” (Be Fastweb). Again 
in 2018, the social ambassadors took courses with 
 Green building
outside professionals to boost the engagement and 
 Mobile first
digital skills of members of the community in the fields 
 Cloud
of cyber security, digital well-being, digital empathy, 
 Collaboration & Communication
digital content & information and digital data. 
Finally, after the testing in Bari, specific focus on 
engagement was devoted to the engagement-inducing 
design of spaces in the new Milan office.
The new office in Milan will serve not only as an 
effective work space, but also as an active tool  
to promote the working smart model.
Work and inclusion 73