In particular, by upholding the principles of “Build the  As for the Bari offices, which were completed in 
least possible”, “multi-functional spaces” and “no  2017, Fastweb employees took an active part in 
assigned seats”, open spaces have been designed  the design of the Milan offices by responding to 
to encourage this new way of working. The lack of  targeted surveys, participating in specific meetings 
closed-off offices and static desks will be offset  and department interviews and by visiting the 
by various types of conference rooms, co-working  construction site. One important example of this 
spaces and functional areas where personnel can  involvement is the series of six employee co-
meet, work together or take a break, based on  design workshops, in which 60 workers acted as 
the concept of everyone choosing where to work  spokespeople for their colleagues, reporting the 
depending on what they need to do and who they  needs and expectations of the various company 
need to do it with.  departments to the architect responsible for the 
building and to the relevant company divisions. 
In this way, the building should instill new modes 
of conduct, leading to workers assuming more  Furthermore, four online surveys for the entire 
responsibility for their needs and the promotion of  company population asked for their opinion on 
widespread cooperation. issues like mobility to and from the offices, what 
functions to include in the Fastweb app, and 
New technologies are a key part of this approach: the  how to manage mobility and meals. To promote 
new space will be the first Fastweb offices with an all  participation, the first layer of managers were 
wi-fi primary network, equipped with new cloud and  actively involved in the construction project with 
digital communication solutions for people to work, as  visits to the site. Over 100 managers provided 
needed, either remotely or from any of the many spaces  feedback and acted as promoters and ambassadors 
provided in the offices easily, collaboratively and rapidly.  with other employees on the main new elements 
of the building. Furthermore, in preparation of the 
Specific attention has been devoted to the creation of  move, the entire population that will be affected by 
a paperless office (digitalization of records) and the  it was offered a chance to tour the new offices, and 
adoption of green building practices, as demonstrated  over 270 people took the tour.
by the building’s LEED Platinum certification. The 
new offices will also have a solar power system to  Co-design sessions with over 40 people were also 
self-generate electricity and a last-generation air  held to define the new app on Agorà, the company’s 
conditioning system to reduce energy consumption.  Intranet. The app will replace the current mobile 
Intranet and enable employees to reserve their work 
In addition, the project has preserved the grassy areas  spaces online and access the main functions and 
pre-dating the construction of the building, keeping  news published on Agorà. 
the gardens opposite piazza Olivetti, with over 100 
types of plants and trees typical of the area. The  All the aspects that arose during the listening 
building was also designed considering sustainable  and discussions with employees were analyzed 
practices for transport, with the provision of nearby  and examined. This led to the definition of new 
parking for car and bike sharing. In line with the  requirements in the spaces, initiatives to improve 
Sharing Cities project, of which the Symbiosis district  shared outdoor spaces, the drafting of “newtiquette” 
is part, the use of public transport and sustainable  a code of conduct for all employees working in the 
lifestyle choices will be strongly encouraged. new space.
The transversal approach to employee involvement  In 2018, two learning tours were held with top 
and the widespread use of innovative digital solutions  companies in the luxury and financial sectors. A 
for everyday work have made Fastweb an example  handful of meetings were held with management to 
for many companies that are now, for the first time,  explore these issues and learn about their companies’ 
attempting digitalization and employee engagement.  experiences. 
74 Work and inclusion