5.4  FASTWEB’S WELFARE MODEL: ALL-ROUND WELL-BEING
Fastweb’s welfare model is designed  providing a broader spectrum of increasingly varied, 
to support employees by providing  nationwide offers.
services and solutions that improve 
their lives, extensive insurance and  The portal was divided into three sections, each of 
healthcare coverage, initiatives and  which consists of specific offers and services for saving 
partnership agreements for education, sport, culture  time and money: “For you”, with benefits for workers, 
and leisure. “For your children”, with solutions for children and 
teenagers; and “For your family”, the section consisting 
In particular, the company’s welfare services cover  of offers specifically designed for relatives and family 
eight essential areas:  members.
1. Work-life balance which, in addition to smart  Flexible benefits are another important initiative 
working described above, provides for specific  unveiled in 2018: an alternative performance bonuses 
services to lighten workers’ daily load, such as an  not subject to income or social security taxes, 
online assistance to handle small, daily errands; consisting of goods, services and non-monetary 
benefits in addition to the monetary portion of their 
2. Benefits, including the extension of employees’  performance bonuses (PDR). In particular, Fastweb 
opportunity to request early pay-out of post- now offers employees the chance to convert all or 
employment benefits, the chance to use flexible  a portion of their annual performance bonus into 
benefits, free tax assistance in the office, company  goods and services through “Fast for me”, in the areas 
discounts and partnership agreements for products  provided for by the new regulations. This initiative 
at reduced prices; has already been extremely popular in its first year: 
amongst the employees who receive the PDR (51,5% 
3. Insurance, consisting, in particular, of life  of total workforce), 10% opted for this remuneration 
insurance, permanent invalidity and professional/ model, converting to flexible benefits 75% (average) of 
non-professional liability insurance for the entire  total PDR bonuses; in addition, the company increased 
company population, in addition to health insurance  the portion of alternative performance bonuses that 
policies at reduced premiums; employees converted into flexible benefits by 20%.
4. Healthcare, including various health programs for  Another 2018 initiative involved mobile telephony deals: 
employees, free flu vaccines, cancer awareness  all employees were offered the chance to use up to 
campaigns (in partnership with LILT) blood  two SIM cards for free within the limits of the plan, and 
donor awareness campaigns and well-organized,  the cost of mobile telephony services was halved for 
affordable insurance for medical expenses; employees who used the same mobile phone for both 
work and personal use. 
5. Education, consisting of summer and winter camps 
for employees’ children, school books at discounted  Personal well-being at Fastweb does not end with the 
prices with deferred payment in pay slips and  benefits and special discounts, but can also be found 
contests/initiatives for employees’ children;  in its focus on personal interests and the activities and 
initiatives it offers.
6. Sport, with a variety of free initiatives for runners and 
tickets to sports events;  It has continued to organize Run Happy Crew, a sports 
initiative designed to boost people’s energy, motivation 
7. Culture and leisure, including free cultural activities  and excitement. Around 320 runners participated 
at the company or exhibition and museum tickets  in 2018, meeting weekly to train after work with 
and tours; professional trainers provided by Fastweb at no charge. 
The running crew had the opportunity to participate in 
8. Mobility, with discounts and deferred payment plans  races and running events in various cities during the 
for public transport passes and car sharing benefits.  year, with the company paying their registration fees.
To increasingly expand the range of services and  In the field of art, Fastweb launched “In Connection 
benefits available to employees, in early 2018, the  with Art”, opening its doors to contemporary art quite 
Fastweb completely rehauled the “Fast for me”  literally, as exhibitions were held at the Fastweb offices 
company welfare platform, transforming it into a  in Milan, Rome and Bari. This initiative also included 
web-based platform accessible from any device and  meetings with the artists and interactive experiences 
76 Work and inclusion