As required by the national labor agreement, all  and in 2018, 15 of them were already sharing their 
Fastweb employees may take parental leave. In 2018,  professional and life experiences with the participating 
296 employees took parental leave (218 women and 78  middle school students to create a bridge between 
men), with 99% returning to work (in 2018, 293 people  school and the world of employment. During the 
returned to work) and a retention rate (i.e., workers  meetings at schools, Fastweb’s role models talked 
still with the company 12 months after having taken  about their personal and professional experiences, 
parental leave) of 98%.32 to inspire and set an example for the girls, while also 
motivating them to achieve their full potential.
 Again in 2018, Fastweb 
renewed its partnership  Another important ongoing partnership was confirmed 
with Valore D, one of  again in 2018, Professional Women’s Network (PWN), a 
the most well-known  global network of professionals united in their common 
associations in Italy for its  goal of strengthening female leadership through 
commitment to promoting  professional development and international networking. 
diversity, talent and female leadership, offering training, 
events and specific work groups formed by people  The partnership with PWN led to two additional projects 
from its member companies specializing in different  during the year: Millennial Mentoring, to reduce the 
areas. In 2018, 13 colleagues took Valore D training and  digital divide between the different generations and 
development courses. promote gender equality and Own your Career Program, 
to bridge the gap between universities and schools, 
As part of this partnership, 2018 saw the launch of  encouraging female students poised to enter the job 
InspirinGirls, a campaign to increase girls’ awareness  market so they experience it as an exciting challenge, 
of their talent, liberating them from stereotypes of  including testimonials from women who have already 
all kinds. 39 volunteers from various sectors and  made this leap. In particular, Fastweb employees 
professions applied to be role models for this project  provided two testimonials as part of this project in 2018.
32. Data on the number of people who took parental leave and the retention rate refer to January-November 2018.
Work and inclusion 79