5.6  OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY AS A WIDESPREAD  
  CULTURE AND COLLECTIVE DUTY
Health and safety are vital issues that Fastweb is  2017, with the involvement of 170 people throughout all 
committed to focusing on in order to minimize risks.  Fastweb’s offices. This training will be offered each year 
It develops targeted activities for employees and  to ensure that trained people are always ready to take 
suppliers who work at its offices, equipment rooms,  action if needed.
directly operated stores and construction sites.
During the year Fastweb also promoted an optional 
For a structured management approach focused  vaccine campaign in which 233 people participated. In 
on continuous improvement, since 2010, Fastweb  addition, it held an awareness day at the Milan office 
has adopted an Occupational Health and Safety  with the participation of the company doctor.
Management System that is certified according to 
OHSAS 18001. In addition, a dedicated department,  The company also updated its approach to mandatory 
supervised by the Head of Risk Prevention and  training with the roll-out of new e-learning courses 
Protection, defines the policies and guidelines for  in addition to those offered as classroom courses. 
compliance with all occupational health and safety  Online training was used particularly for work-related 
regulations and carries out risk prevention and  stress courses, which were introduced considering the 
protection activities each year to continuously improve  findings of a survey conducted on organizational well-
workers’ health and safety.  being in 2017.
Workers’ Safety Representatives, 16 employees based  In 2018, Fastweb provided a total of 3,432 hours of 
throughout all company locations and offices, serve  mandatory training (1.3 hours per employee), 2,980 of 
on the health and safety committees, representing the  which in the classroom and 452 as e-learning.
entire company population. Together with the Prevention 
and Protection Service Officials, the Workers’ Safety  Fastweb recorded 24 accidents at work in the year.
Representatives carry out health and safety activities at 
all Fastweb sites in their respective areas. 83% of injuries occurred in transit: these were accidents 
that occurred, for example, while employees were 
Health was given particular importance in 2018 with the  travelling to or from work. The injuries reported at 
launch of a company heart emergency project, in which  Fastweb sites were due to distractions or minor 
a total of 23 semi-automatic defibrillators were installed  accidents not attributable to the company’s negligence 
at all Fastweb offices, so immediate assistance may be  in the protection of worker safety.
provided to any employees if necessary. To ensure the 
prompt and proper use of devices, specific, four-hour  Fastweb does not have any employees involved in work 
training courses have been provided since December  duties that present a high rate or risk of specific illnesses.
Employee injury rates 2016  2017 2018
Number   Total 32 34 24
of injuries
Including in transit 24 28 20
Including fatal injuries 0 1 0
Fatality rate 0 0.2 0
Including those with serious consequences 7 8 4
Including those in transit with serious consequences 3 7 3
Serious accident rate 1.4 1.6 1.0
Number  
of illnesses
Total n.d. n.d. 7
Number of  
recordable injuries
Total n.d. n.d. 11
Recordable injury rate n.d. n.d. 2.6
The rates reported in the table are normalized with a factor of 1,000,000 units
80 Work and inclusion