JOINING FORCES WITH OUR CUSTOMERS TO COMBAT CLIMATE CHANGE:  
THE SUSTAINABILITY LABEL
THE PROJECT 
In 2018, Fastweb decided to supplement the way in which it calculates the total greenhouse gas 
emissions that it prevents each year with its services, adding a “per service/product” approach in 
which the average greenhouse gas emissions prevented per service/product unit sold.
It identified the services in its catalogue that are environmentally-friendly in that they prevent greenhouse gas 
emissions: for example, these are services that help users reduce their travel by car or public transport, enable 
them to use high-energy efficiency infrastructure or reduce the use of paper.
The basic assumptions and the calculation method, defined in accordance with international standards, third-
party research and a reputably reliable database, are described in detail in a methodology statement published on 
the company’s corporate website since the start of 2019. Before being published, this methodology was subject 
to third-party review by a panel of Legambiente experts, who found it to be scientifically valid and transparent, 
in line with the previously 
established objectives, and 
therefore approved it.
Since the start of 2019, the 
environmental benefits of all 
the products in this project 
are specified and come with a 
Sustainability Label explaining 
the initiative and give evidence 
to the fact that the calculation 
has received Legambiente’s 
approval.
KEY FIGURES
13 6
Services for medium and large companies Services for households, freelancers and small businesses
PAPER REDUCTION INITIATIVES A few initiatives to reduce the use of paper by 
customers have also been rolled out in recent years: 
Again in 2018, Fastweb launched initiatives to reduce  today over 90% of customers receive digital copies of 
the use of paper at its offices and by customers. their Fastweb bills only and since 2018 telephone books 
are no longer delivered. Thanks to these initiatives, the 
By implementing new digital means of sharing  printing of 5,245 tons of paper was avoided in 2018, 
information and documents, in 2018, it reduced the use  thereby preventing the emission of roughly 600 tons of 
of paper by over 7 tons on the previous year. CO equivalents.38
2
38. Value calculated by multiplying paper volumes saved by not printing documents by the CO2 equivalent emission coefficient provided by the Ecoinvent 2.0 database.
9900 Responsibility and environmental sustainability