6.4  LOCAL INITIATIVES AND COMMUNITIES
Fastweb supports the areas in which  and initiatives, and even involving its employees and 
it operates by funding local projects  customers.
Solidarity with earthquake victims   Digital Solidarity, a digital contest to 
in Central Italy promote solidarity
Again in 2018, Fastweb was on the front line  In partnership with Fondazione Ente dello Spettacolo 
supporting people in Central Italy affected by the  and Corriere della Sera Buone Notizie, Fastweb held 
earthquake, continuing to help the Civil Protection  “Digitali e Solidali - L’Italia delle buone notizie” - Digital 
Service, residents and resident customers in the  Solidarity - Goods News in Italy, a contest to promote 
areas hit by the tremors. A community center was  Italy’s leading role in solidarity initiatives. Its aim was to 
opened in Accumoli in October, built using funds  encourage residents to collectively describe their positive 
raised by Fastweb employees.  experiences in this field and to highlight the successful 
  solidarity projects often ignored by the media and, 
accordingly, unknown to the public. Participants were 
asked to create a short film documenting a solidarity 
Around-the-clock pediatric call center project that uses digital technology and communication 
networks, to multiply the impacts and make the 
In collaboration with its customers, Fastweb  charitable initiative more efficient and innovative. The 
supports the Around-the-Clock Pediatric Call Centre  top 10 short films, which were selected by a panel of 
Project created by LILT (the Italian League for the  judges, including the President, two representatives 
Fight against Cancer). Fastweb matches every euro  of the film magazine “Rivista del Cinematografo” and 
donated by customers in their contracts, doubling the  Cinematografo.it, one representative of “Corriere della 
value of the donation. Sera Buone Notizie” and one representative of Fastweb, 
were presented and shown during the 75th annual 
The project began in 2016 to provide real help  International Venice Film Festival.
to families facing difficulties following hospital 
treatment with remote assistance offered by the  Tangible support for the city of Genoa
Cancer Pediatric Department of the National Cancer 
Institute in Milan, ensuring a call center that is open  In the wake of the collapse of the Morandi Bridge, 
24 hours a day.  Fastweb lent support to customers in Genoa who 
  had to evacuate their homes. For example, Fastweb 
gave its active mobile customers prepaid top-ups 
and took measures to suspend landline connection 
Volunteering at the Gorlini shelter services without requiring them to carry out contractual 
formalities and without applying deactivation costs. 
175 Fastweb employees spent three different days  Fastweb has also kicked off a campaign to contact all 
at the SPRAR migrant shelter in via Gorlini, which the  resident customers in the areas affected by the collapse 
Milan municipal authorities indicated as in urgent  of the bridge to inform them of the new measures.
need of assistance, working as volunteers. During 
this experience, employees helped trim hedges, clean  Solidarity telephone numbers
the courtyards, carry out maintenance and repairs, 
paint the interiors and prepare meals that they then  With specific telephone numbers, Fastweb has 
shared with the shelter guests. In addition, the more  supported initiatives in 2018 covering a wide 
creative volunteers painted a mural on an exterior  range of different social and humanitarian causes, 
wall provided by the municipal authorities. In addition,  including scientific research, childhood, supporting 
a few employees shared their digital expertise,  developing countries, violence against women, socially 
teaching guests basic IT skills and helping them  disadvantaged groups, nature and the environment 
prepare, at the end of the three Team Building days,  and emergencies. In 2018, Fastweb customers helped 
CVs to use as they search for work. donate a total of €495,516 to 112 associations.
Responsibility and environmental sustainability 9911