Fastweb publishes the Sustainability Report annually  STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
to ensure ongoing reporting of its performance. In 
particular, this report covers the period from 1 January  Dialogue with stakeholders is fundamental 
to 31 December 2018.  for Fastweb, which endeavors to maintain 
communication with stakeholders that is as 
To request information, make suggestions or request  continuous and reciprocal as possible, in order to 
a copy of the Sustainability Report, please write to:  inform them of its initiatives and strategies and to 
sustainability@fastweb.it. receive feedback on relevant environmental, social 
and economic aspects. 
SCOPE OF THE REPORT
The company has identified stakeholders in accordance 
As in the previous year, the Sustainability Report  with international standard AA1000SES, which 
refers exclusively to Fastweb S.p.A., a single-member  recommends identifying stakeholders considering 
company managed and coordinated by Swisscom AG  dependency, responsibility, tension, influence and 
through its subsidiary Swisscom Italia S.r.l.  concept of diverse perspectives.
THE DATA COLLECTION AND REPORT  This Sustainability Report, which is published online 
VALIDATION PROCESS and in hard copy, is used for stakeholder engagement. 
In particular, it is shared with Fastweb’s main 
The data and information reported in this document were  customers and is sent to certain municipal authorities. 
gathered through interviews and data collection forms.  Visit https://www.fastweb.it/corporate/sostenibilita/
The reporting principles of Fastweb’s Sustainability  strategia-obiettivi-e-report/?lng=EN to download the 
Report are based on its information approval and  entire document; all users and suppliers are notified 
discussion processes. The CEO has approved the  when it is published. 
structure of this report and the topics on which it focuses 
(material topics), and the involved units have approved  Fastweb also carries out many listening, dialogue 
its content. The Board of Directors present and approve  and communication initiatives with its internal 
the definitive version of this Sustainability Report. and external stakeholders. It uses many different 
stakeholder engagement tools: these range from 
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE events and meetings for communications, targeted 
listening campaigns, online interaction (website, the 
As in previous years, Fastweb has decided to have this  Intranet, social media and specific pages devoted to 
report reviewed by independent third parties. Their  communications).
assurance report is attached. 
SUPPLIERS PUBLIC AUTHORITIES AND 
 Online platform SUPERVISORY AUTHORITIES
 Periodic meetings to discuss progress and align   Work groups
suppliers with the company’s operating units  Technical sector-specific work groups 
 Public consultation procedures
COMMUNITIES  Contribution to defining new legislation and related 
 Ongoing management of partnerships with charitable  mandatory provisions
organizations and not-for-profit associations to 
benefit digital, social and regional development  MEDIA
initiatives  Press releases
 Website and social media  Press conferences
 Monthly to annual company reputation surveys   Website
(Reputation Institute surveys)  Social media
Additional information 95