Material  Material  Internal/
Scope of the topic and reporting 
topics -  topics - GRI  external  Stakeholders Management approach
limitations
Fastweb Standard  impact
Digital  GRI 203 - External Customers,  Fastweb monitors this topic via its  Fastweb’s activities have a wide 
infrastructure  Indirect  Public  Business Strategy and Technology  range of impacts on stakeholders, 
for the  Economic  Authorities,  teams and the head of technological  as it contributes to the achievement 
Country Impacts;  Supervisory  infrastructure and network and data  of national and European objectives 
GRI 413 -  Authorities  center operating processes. and provides increasingly faster and 
Local  and  convergent connection services to 
Communities Communities customers and communities.
Technological  - External Customers  The Digital Transformation team, which  With its tests and innovations, from 
innovation  and  focuses on digital transformation and  5G to WOW FI, Fastweb influences the 
and open  Communities the Customer Journey both within the  modernization of Italy, institutional 
innovation company and outside it, monitors and  objectives and communities, 
manages this topic.  contributing to the advancement of 
digital technologies on a national scale.
Digital skills  GRI 203 -  Internal and  Communities,  The Corporate Social Responsibility  With its projects, Fastweb intends 
at school and  Indirect  external  Customers,  team manages digital skills. to contribute to communities by 
work Economic  Employees supporting them, the public authorities 
Impacts;  and its customers in one of the main 
GRI 413 -  challenges that the country faces as 
Local  part of its digital transition. In addition to 
Communities the development of digital skills outside 
the company, it is crucial to constantly 
update employees’ digital skills.
Impacts of  - External Customers  This topic handled by the Technology  Digital technologies could potentially 
technology  and  and Digital Transformation team,  impact Fastweb’s customers, and 
on people’s  Communities in collaboration with the Legal &  Fastweb therefore undertakes to 
lives Regulatory Affairs team, which is  constantly monitor developments 
responsible for ensuring legal protection,  in scientific studies and regulations 
Fastweb’s compliance with legislations  concerning these topics. 
and regulations and assisting the 
company in its relationships with other 
telecommunications operators and the 
relevant authorities. 
Listening to  GRI 417 -  External Customers Internally, this topic is managed by  This topic relates to Fastweb’s 
customers  Marketing  the Digital Transformation, Marketing  commitment to provide its customers 
and service  and Labelling & Customer Experience, Institutional  with a high-quality service capable of 
quality & External Relations teams and the  meeting their needs and expectations. 
commercial teams, consisting of the  This means conducting listening 
Consumer & Small Business, Enterprise  campaigns to monitor their needs 
and Wholesale teams. Furthermore, to  and ensure a quality experience in all 
steer internal operations and ensure the  interaction with the company, from 
proper application of company rules, the  stores to digital contact. 
company has adopted, for the Enterprise 
division, a management system certified 
in accordance with ISO 20000 - ICT 
Service Management, ISO 27001 - 
Information and Data Security and lSO 
9001 - Process Quality. 
Additional information 97