Material  Material  Internal/
Scope of the topic and reporting 
topics -  topics - GRI  external  Stakeholders Management approach
limitations
Fastweb Standard  impact
Privacy  GRI 418 -  Internal and  Employees,  The management of customer privacy  For Fastweb, protecting privacy and 
and cyber  Customer  external Customers,  is overseen by the Data Protection  promoting cyber security means 
security Privacy Suppliers Officer, along with the Compliance  implementing internal controls in line 
& Risk Management team with  with current regulations and national 
respect to compliance with legislation  and international best practices for the 
and relationships with the relevant  management networks, information 
authorities. Confirming its commitment  system and internal processes. 
to this topic, the company has drafted  Furthermore, by offering specific 
the Customer Data Protection Policy,  products and services, Fastweb 
which defines the methods used to  supports its Enterprise customers 
inform all customers about personal  manage these issues as well. 
data processing. The Security & Real 
Estate team oversees cyber security. 
In addition, the Enterprise division’s 
management system has been certified 
in accordance with ISO/IEC 27001 - 
Information and Data Security since 
2007, ISO 27018 - Cloud Privacy since 
2016 and, since 2018, ISO 27017 - 
Security Controls for Cloud Services 
- and ISO 27035 - Incident Management 
and Prevention.
Transparency  GRI 417 -  External Customers The Marketing & Customer Experience,  Through innovative one-of-a-kind 
and trust Marketing  Institutional & External Relations and  initiatives, the company strives to 
and Labeling;  Legal & Regulatory Affairs teams and  promote a new approach with impacts 
GRI 419 - the Commercial teams oversee this  not only for its customers but for the 
Socio- topic. entire market as well.
economic 
Compliance
Diversity,  GRI 405 -  Internal and  Employees,  Protecting diversity and equal  The company’s impact on this topic 
equal  Diversity  external Communities opportunity and promoting a merit- regards employees and, potentially, 
opportunities  and Equal  based work environment are the  communities, such as through 
and  Opportunity topics managed by the Human Capital  participation in projects to promote 
meritocracy team. The Change Management team  diversity and highlight women’s talent. 
promotes initiatives that celebrate and 
support diversity and women’s talent 
outside the company. 
Attracting  GRI 202 - Internal Employees The Human Capital team, which is  Fastweb has an impact on the life of 
and  Market  responsible for organization, the  its employees and their professional 
developing  Presence; enhancement of human resources and  development, with the aim of laying the 
talent GRI 404 -  recruiting, as well as development and  foundation for long-lasting business 
Training and  training, oversees and manages this  success and supporting people in their 
Education topic. personal and professional development.
Welfare and  GRI 401 -  Internal Employees The Change Management team  As Fastweb has an impact on the life 
professional  Employment manages this topic. Its objective is to  of its employees and their professional 
well-being steer the organization in the application  well-being, it aims to create a positive 
of a new internal organizational model,  and healthy work environment.
in line with business strategies.
Occupational  GRI 403 -  Internal and  Employees  A dedicated unit on the Human Capital  First and foremost, this topic regards 
health and  Occupational  external and Suppliers team chaired by the Head of Prevention  workers operating on the company’s 
safety Health and  and Protection manages health and  behalf and activities contracted to 
Safety safety at the company. In addition,  third parties through specific checks in 
the entire company is covered by  the qualification and management of 
a management system certified in  suppliers. Quantitative reporting on this 
accordance with OHSAS 18001, which,  topic is limited to the internal scope. 
together with Fastweb’s Safety Policy, 
outlines the rules and practices to be 
applied at all organizational levels. 
98 Additional information