Material  Material  Internal/
Scope of the topic and reporting 
topics -  topics - GRI  external  Stakeholders Management approach
limitations
Fastweb Standard  impact
Energy  GRI 302 -  Internal and  Communities,  The Technology team, in particular  Most of the company’s energy 
efficiency  Energy;  external Customers,  a specific unit headed by the Energy  consumption is due to the electricity 
and climate  GRI 305 -  Suppliers Manager, oversees and manages  used for network infrastructure. Fastweb 
change Emissions this topic. The Marketing & Customer  undertakes to monitor the impacts of 
Experience team and, in particular,  its products and services not only inside 
the Corporate Social Responsibility  the company, but outside as well, in 
unit, monitor the company’s impact  relation to suppliers and customers. 
on climate change and ensure the 
maintenance of the environmental 
management system in accordance 
with ISO 14001.
Local  - External Communities The Marketing & Customer Experience  By creating and supporting projects 
initiatives and  team and, more specifically, the  for local communities, Fastweb aims 
communities Corporate Social Responsibility team  to have a positive social impact 
supervise and coordinate this topic at  everywhere it operates. 
central level. All company teams may 
participate in implementing initiatives 
to connect with the local area and 
communities.
Economic  GRI 201 -  Internal and  Swisscom,  All company team directly and  Economic sustainability and business 
and business  Economic  external Employees indirectly contribute to achieving its  development are key targets and factors 
performance Performance business and sustainability goals. In  enabling overall business activities. The 
particular, the Administration, Finance  company’s impact in these areas first 
and Control division oversees this  regards Swisscom and employees, but 
topic, as it handles administration and  has indirect repercussions on all the 
financial management, strategies and  company’s stakeholders. 
procurement. 
Creation of  - External Communities The Marketing & Customer Experience  The digital world is a driver for the 
value for  team and, more specifically, the  country’s new business development. 
stakeholders  Corporate Social Responsibility team,  Fastweb’s impacts on this topic mainly 
and the  manages the topic of digital skills. relate to certain activities in connection 
Country with digital skills, an enabling factor for 
the country’s business development.
Ethics and  GRI 205 -  Internal and  All  Compliance with company values  Fastweb considers integrity, 
compliance Anti- external stakeholder  and rules and regulations are topics  professional ethics and transparency in 
corruption;  groups overseen by Legal & Regulatory Affairs  its relationships with its stakeholders 
GRI 206 -  and Internal Audit, Risk Management  as necessary principles of business 
Anti- & Supervisory Body 231, to design,  conduct. Accordingly, this topic is 
competitive  manage and update the internal control  considered in all internal controls to 
behavior; and business risk management system,  ensure the proper management of all 
GRI 419 - ensure compliance with policies and  company activities.
Socio- laws, define and update the Code of 
economic  Ethics and the 231 Model and check that 
Compliance; the company units follow them. 
GRI 406 -
Non-
discrimination;
GRI 417 - 
Marketing 
and Labeling
Additional information 99