    SIT S.p.A. – Consolidated Non-Financial Statement at  
December 31, 2019 
Product Sustainability 
Responsible supply chain management  
COMMITMENT  DEADLINE  PROGRESS OF THE PROJECT 
Completion  of  suppliers’  undersigning  of  the  In 2020  49% of direct suppliers that were 
Supplier Ethics Code (at least direct suppliers)1.   active in 2019 signed the Ethics 
code for suppliers and Third-party 
intermediaries.  
In order to offer customers products that meet the  In 2019 -  Developed and implemented a 
most  stringent  safety  standards  at  an  2020  system to monitor the number 
international  level,  SIT  undertakes  to  regularly  and percentage of suppliers who 
update a restricted substances list, going beyond  have declared their compliance 
mandatory  RoHS  and  REACH  regulations  by  with the RoHS and REACH 
integrating additional requirements deriving from  regulations. Mapping completion 
specific market needs.  is expected for 2020. 
 
 
Environmental Sustainability 
Reductions in emissions of hazardous and environment-impacting substances 
COMMITMENT  DEADLINE  PROGRESS OF THE PROJECT 
Feasibility studies, in all Group plants, for actions  In the  The actions listed in the following 
to reduce the uses and emissions of hazardous  period  points were carried out following 
and substances with environmental impacts. The  2019- in-house feasibility assessments. 
plan includes the phases described in the points  2021 
below. 
Reduction  in  the  use  of  tetrachlorethylene  in  During  A  new  washing  machine  was 
mechanical processes at the Rovigo 1 facility, by  2019  installed in the magnetic groups 
replacing  washing  equipment  using  modified  department at the Rovigo1 plant 
alcohol.  in  September  2019.  The  new 
  machine  uses  modified  alcohol 
instead of tetrachlorethylene. 
 
Replacement of hydrogen with nitrogen used to  During  Heat-treatment  kilns  no  longer 
treat aluminium components in the mechanical  2019  use hydrogen. Instead, they use a 
workshop.  mixture of 95% nitrogen and 5% 
hydrogen  in  cylinders 
(hydrogenated nitrogen) 
Strengthening of the chemical-physical purifier for  During  Enhancements will be made in 
industrial wastewater at the Rovigo1 plant  2020  2020 following an assessment of 
the plant’s purification potential 
and efficiency in 2019. 
Completion  of  feasibility  studies  in  remaining  In 2020- Activities will start in 2020. 
Group plants for actions to reduce the uses and  2021 
 
1 Direct suppliers are suppliers of goods and raw materials that contribute directly to the manufacture of final products. 
13 
 