    SIT S.p.A. – Consolidated Non-Financial Statement at  
December 31, 2019 
Risk Management 
SIT further consolidated its Enterprise Risk Management process during 2019, which it uses to identify, 
measure, manage and monitor corporate risks, with the aim of mitigating their impact on corporate 
strategies. 
The  adoption  and  use  of  this  operating  instrument  particularly  responds  to  the  objective  to 
increasingly make knowledgeable decisions in line with the propensity to risk, to create greater 
awareness around risks, legality and company values and, finally, to protect and increase the value of 
the enterprise by supporting, through appropriate structures and targeted rules and procedures, 
transparent and correct business conduct which is in line with the objectives set by the Board of 
Directors. 
The Enterprise Risk Management activities carried out by all primary company departments are 
overseen and coordinated by the Group's Governance & Legal Department and are complementary 
to those performed by the Group’s Corporate and Control boards operating in the area of the Internal 
Control and Risk Management System. 
In line with best international practice, SIT adopts the following classification of risks: 
•  External risks 
•  Strategic risks 
•  Operating risks; 
•  Legal and compliance risks 
•  Financial risks. 
For more information, please refer to the Risk Management Policy section of the Financial Statements 
and to the Report on Corporate Governance and Ownership Structure. 
In the Risk Model defined by SIT, and in reference to the risks related to sustainability issues, the SIT 
Group has identified the following risks as relevant, which are related to the issues provided for by 
Legislative Decree 254/2016 and to the associated mitigation methods: 
Environmental impact risk 
The main environment-impacting risks are potential inefficiencies in managing energy consumption, 
water resources, waste and discharges, as wells as the possibility of industrial accidents. 
Regarding energy consumption, inefficient use of energy sources (gas and electricity) may lead to an 
increase in atmospheric CO emissions. As for the management of waste, discharges and water 
2 
resources, risks are connected to the potential impact of pollution on the local area. 
Guidelines and risk management and mitigation methods 
In order to mitigate environmental risks, SIT continuously monitors its processing activities for issues, 
such as production circuit water leaks or improper disposal of hazardous waste, both in Italy and 
abroad,  with  the  most  rigorous  observance  of  applicable  regulations.  Monitoring  takes  place 
according to control plans, with analyses carried out by external laboratories which issue specific test 
reports certifying compliance with the limits set by applicable regulations. Checks are performed on 
industrial water discharges, atmospheric emissions, external noise levels, and the sorting of waste. 
24 
 