    SIT S.p.A. – Consolidated Non-Financial Statement at  
December 31, 2019 
During the year, SIT engages its stakeholders through various engagement activities in order to assess 
their expectations. The main opportunities to meet with the various categories of stakeholders are 
presented below. 
Stakeholder  Engagement activities 
Shareholder,  Periodic financial disclosure; 
investors and  Institutional communications (e.g. website, investor relations); 
lenders  Market communications (e.g. regular conference calls, national and 
international roadshows); 
Periodic meetings (Shareholders’ Meeting) 
Customers  Regular meetings (e.g. visits to customers, discussions on technical projects, 
celebration of shared goals achieved); 
Sector trade fairs; 
Audit of plants belonging to SIT subsidiaries; 
Continuous dialogue via the corporate website and magazine; 
Training workshops on Group products; 
Invitations to corporate events. 
Governments,  Discussion meetings with representatives of local institutions; 
public  Participation in regulatory committees at a European and national level. 
administrations, 
institutions and 
regulators 
Trade  Participation in rules committees, seminars, conferences; 
associations  Discussions on market trends and emerging needs. 
Universities and  Collaborations on innovation projects and research into new materials; 
research centres  Internships for students. 
Suppliers,  Periodic meetings; 
subcontractors  Quality audits and assessments. 
and commercial 
partners 
Local community  Participation in events promoted by local associations; 
and society  Projects supporting social initiatives. 
Employees and  New employee insertion programme; 
collaborators  Training on workplace safety and professional skills development; 
Job postings to promote internal mobility and professional growth; 
Smart working to promote a better work-life balance for employees; 
Referral programmes during the staff recruitment process; 
Implementation of digital transformation policies; 
Company intranet; 
In-house magazine to promote internal communications; 
Engagement initiatives for continuous improvements to the work 
environment (e.g. 5S method); 
Welfare plans; 
Company events. 
Trade unions  Meetings for the presentation of business plans and joint reviews, and for the 
stipulation of new agreements. 
Media  Institutional website; 
Media invitations to public events organised by the Group (e.g. inaugurations, 
anniversaries); 
Press releases. 
30 
 