    SIT S.p.A. – Consolidated Non-Financial Statement at  
December 31, 2019 
Ethics, business integrity and compliance 
 
Ethics and business integrity 
SIT supports and promotes all actions aimed at guaranteeing the performance of internal operating 
activities and external business relations according to the principles of ethics and integrity.  
One of the SIT unalienable principles is compliance with the Laws and Regulations in force in all of the 
countries in which it operates. In the performance of their duties, all those who work in the name and 
on behalf of SIT are required to adopt a conduct based on transparency and moral integrity, according 
to the applicable social, economic, political and cultural contexts, and, in particular, to the principles 
of honesty, fairness and good faith. 
SIT is well aware of the risks and consequences of violations of mandatory rules and governance and 
of potential associated judicial and administrative sanctions and reputational damage deriving from 
inappropriate or illicit conduct by its employees, consultants and collaborators. 
Thus, all Group employees, and all those they come into contact with, for any reason, are required to 
comply with applicable external and internal regulations, and to behave in an appropriate manner, 
regardless of the role held in relation to the company. 
The reference document, in this regard, is the Ethics Code, which enshrines the values, ethical 
principles  and  rules  of  conduct  that  bind  Directors,  Statutory  Auditors,  employees,  suppliers, 
consultants, partners and all those who operate in the name and on behalf of SIT. 
The Ethics Code may be consulted on the corporate website8, together with other documents, such as 
the Code of Basic Working Conditions, Code of Non-Discrimination and Diversity, Ethics code for 
suppliers and Third-party intermediaries, and the Organisation, Management and Control Model, 
pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/20019, guaranteeing a consolidated and formal approach to ethical 
and responsible business. 
Although the Ethics Code cannot cover all regulations and norms in the various countries in which SIT 
operates, it nonetheless represents a compendium of essential rules and principles to bind and inspire 
all those that form part of or enter into contact with the Group.  
The Company guarantees the distribution and constant updating of its Ethics Code. In particular, 
during 2019, the document was updated to incorporate the regulatory changes introduced with Law 
179/2017 ("whistleblowing"). 
 
Organisation, Management and Control Model pursuant to Leg. Decree 231/01 
The Italian companies of the Group, SIT S.p.A. and MeteRSit S.r.l., have implemented an Organisation, 
Management and Control Model (also “the Model”) as a system of rules to prevent unlawful conduct 
by  top  management,  managers,  decision-makers  and  individuals  subject  to  management  and 
supervision by those in senior positions, pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/2001. 
 
8 SIT S.p.A.’s Ethics Code is available at the following link: http://www.sitgroup.it/codici-condotta-policies/ 
9 For more information on the content of such codes and documents, refer to the chapters “SIT’s supply chain” 
and “Diversity, equal opportunities and non-discrimination”. 
35 
 