    SIT S.p.A. – Consolidated Non-Financial Statement at  
December 31, 2019 
Relations with Public Institutions  
Within the broader sphere of the relations with internal and external stakeholders, dialogue with 
institutions is an area of major attention and interest. SIT belongs to various associations and 
participates in both local and international working groups, collaborating with other sector companies 
to encourage innovation and the standardisation of product technical standards for common general 
interests. 
In countries where it is present and operates, in order to promote sector norms, standards and best 
practices, SIT collaborates with various national and international associations, including, for example:  
Main associations to which the Group belongs 
Country/continent  Association  Key objectives 
Europe  AFECOR  To guide standardisation processes in order to 
The European Control  promote  consistent  and commonly  accepted 
Manufacturers' Association  European  standards  for  process  and 
combustion controls. 
Europe  EHI  To address the needs of the heating market 
European Heating Industry  from the perspective of the industry. Its scope 
includes the European regulatory framework, 
its implementation and global industry-related 
issues. 
Europe  ECS  To support standardisation activities in a wide 
European  Committee  for  range of sectors, including construction, energy, 
Standardization  the  environment,  health  and  safety,  and 
healthcare. 
Italy  Confindustria  Confindustria  is  the  main  association 
representing  manufacturing  and  service 
businesses in Italy. It represents companies and 
their  values  in  relation  to  institutions  at  all 
levels. 
Italy  Anima  -  Associazioni  To  protect  and  promote  the  mechanical 
Nazionali  dell’Industria  engineering  sectors,  companies  and 
Meccanica  Varia  e  Affine  technologies  through  collaboration  with 
(National Associations of the  standardisation bodies; to raise the awareness 
Allied  Mechanical  of European bodies on energy, environmental 
Engineering Industry)   and safety issues; to establish partnerships with 
other associations and federations; to develop 
inter-associate  technical,  scientific  and 
economic  collaborations  and  synergies  on 
national and foreign institutional, technical and 
regulatory round tables. 
Italy  Assotermica  Within Confindustria and Anima, to represent 
manufacturers of equipment and components 
for  environmental  comfort,  and  to  promote 
energy efficiency and environmental protection 
in  keeping  with  the  goals  of  the  European 
Union. 
Italy  CIG  -  Comitato  Italiano  Gas  It is one of the Italian entities federated with the 
(Italian Gas Committee)  Italian  National  Standards  Institute, UNI,  in 
38 
 