    SIT S.p.A. – Consolidated Non-Financial Statement at  
December 31, 2019 
order  to  draft  UNI’s combustible gas 
sector  national technical standards. 
Netherlands  FME CWM  FME is the Dutch employers’ organisation in the 
technology industry.  
United Kingdom  EUA  -  Energy  and  Utilities  It represents energy sector companies in terms 
Alliance  of the future policy direction within the energy 
sector. 
USA  American Gas Association  It brings together energy sector companies that 
distribute gas. Its mission is to promote the 
safe, reliable and efficient supply of natural gas 
to  homes  and  businesses  throughout  the 
United States. 
USA  AHRI  -  Air  Conditioning  Association  of  over  300  member  companies 
Heating  &  Refrigeration  that  produce  quality,  safe,  efficient  and 
Institute  innovative  equipment  and  components  for 
residential,  commercial  and  industrial  air 
conditioning, space heating, water heating and 
commercial refrigeration, for sale both in North 
America and globally. 
Australia  GAMAA  -  Gas  Appliance  The primary activity of GAMAA is to work with 
Manufacturer’s Association  members,  governments  and  other  industry 
stakeholder  to  develop  and  implement 
workable,  safe  and  practical  standards  and 
regulations for the gas appliance industry. 
China  CGAC  -  China  Quality  National  association  for  quality  control  and 
Supervision and Test Center  testing of gas use applications. 
for Gas Appliance 
 
Regarding the Group Metering Division, MeteRSit maintains institutional and commercial relations 
with the main Italian gas distribution companies and participates in both public and private tenders.  
Several of these companies are public bodies, while the majority are private companies operating gas 
distribution services in the public interest. Whether public or private, all the companies respond to 
the Italian Regulatory Authority for Electricity Gas and Water, ARERA, including MeteRSit, which is 
committed to guaranteeing the highest standards of integrity and honesty in all its relations. 
In compliance with current anti-mafia and procurement regulations, on a half-yearly (or less) basis, 
MeteRSit transmits to gas distribution companies mandatory penal certifications, such as those 
referring to criminal records, administrative sanctions and pending charges, as well as anti-mafia 
declarations from those holding certain positions or qualifications within MeteRSit and SIT S.p.A. 
In case of any non-compliance, MeteRSit receives any notifications and reports directly from the gas 
distribution companies. Notifications are managed by the MeteRSit Legal Office in coordination with 
the SIT S.p.A. Legal Department, under the supervision of SIT’s Legal Affairs Directorate, and in 
 
collaboration with the MeteRSit departments involved. 
39 
 