    SIT S.p.A. – Consolidated Non-Financial Statement at  
December 31, 2019 
The most relevant product quality issues regard mechanical parts, metrology, electronic boards and 
software.  
Software quality, in particular, is managed by the Group through structured testing and validation 
methodologies aimed at preventing potential criticalities. 
In addition to the aforementioned certifications, the Metering Division’s Rovigo plant is certified to 
Annex IV of the “Atex Directive” as a guarantee of Production Quality Assurance regarding instruments 
and systems used in potentially explosive atmospheres. Furthermore, MeteRSit S.r.l.’s Rovigo and 
Brasov plants are certified to Module D of the Measuring Instruments Directive as a guarantee of 
Production Quality Assurance. 
 
Regarding mechanisms for handling complaints and notifications, the Group has an “After Sales” 
department which acts as the receiving point for all customer complaints. A dedicated team analyses 
every complaint received to verify any correlation with defects on returned products attributable to 
the company.  
 
In order to help protect people and the environment from risks deriving from chemical substances, 
SIT has implemented a standard for some years now that requires suppliers to limit, declare or refrain 
from using restricted substances. The process of collecting documentation continued in 2019, which 
serves to ensure that components supplied to SIT comply with the relevant legislation. 
 
SIT also pays the utmost attention to the protection of data managed through its products. As such, 
in November 2018, MeteRSit Srl received the UNI CEI EN ISO/IEC 27001 certification (an essential 
prerequisite for selling products to European markets) and passed its first audit in 2019 without any 
recorded non-compliances. 
ISO 27001 is an international standard that defines the requirements for information security 
management systems, thereby guaranteeing the confidentiality, integrity and availability of data. The 
procedures, new IT infrastructures and regulations put in place by MeteRSIT aim to protect the 
expertise and information processed by the company at all levels and across all departments. 
Furthermore, IT resources and network infrastructures underwent technological upgrades to meet 
the  certification's requirements.  The  upgrades  have  improved  the  reliability  of  the  Company’s 
production processes, which are heavily reliant on IT systems. 
 
 
 
44 
 