    SIT S.p.A. – Consolidated Non-Financial Statement at  
December 31, 2019 
Research and Development 
SIT develops and manufactures high-tech systems and components. Investing in Research and 
Development is therefore essential to maintaining a competitive advantage over other players in a 
market  that  continually  demands  more  innovative  and  highly  performing  products  capable  of 
guaranteeing the highest energy classes. From a manufacturing perspective, SIT is also constantly 
engaged in research into using smaller quantities of materials, in order to make production cycles 
more efficient and to reduce environmental impacts. Researching new technological solutions and 
developing new and better performing products is therefore the best way to continue leading the 
market and strengthening a brand image globally recognised as a synonym for quality and innovation. 
In 2019, the Group invested approximately 3% of its revenue, amounting to Euro 11.2 million, into 
research and development. 
At the end of 2019, SIT13 possessed 72 patents, while a further 16 patents are pending in 2020. 
SIT  has  chosen  to  adopt  a  matrix  management  organisational  structure  in  which  specialised 
professionals define development processes and scout new technologies in the fields of electronics, 
mechanics, testing methods and technical documentation development. In particular, the Heating 
Division employs four platform managers for the management of all project and product development 
phases, from conceptualisation to production. 
Furthermore, demands for an increasingly reduced time-to-market requires the adoption of the latest 
methods and tools in order to design products faster while guaranteeing the highest standards of 
reliability and quality.  
 
Our product development process follows a stage-gate methodology, characterised by the following 
phases: 
•  Concept - definition of the design and product specifications;  
•  Development - concept realisation; 
•  Verification and certification - stringent product testing and controls to assess performance 
and behaviour under extreme conditions; 
•  Release and production.  
The process minimises various main risks in the development of a new product, such as incompatibility 
with international regulations or the quality demanded by customers, and delays in its development 
and production release.  
In 2019, a project was launched in collaboration with a consultancy firm specialised in applying "lean 
thinking” principles to internal company processes. The aim was to further improve the Group’s PDP 
(Product Portfolio Management) and PLC (Product Development Procedure) processes in line with a 
lean  approach.  Expected  improvements  include  the  greater  concentration  of  resources  on 
opportunities that are aligned with the Group’s business strategy, as well as greater predictability and 
a reduction in time to market. 
Operating in an international technological context, the Group can take numerous opportunities to 
establish collaborations with research institutions and customers. Indeed, for many years SIT has 
collaborated  with  leading  Italian  universities,  such  as  the  Polytechnic  University  of  Milan,  the 
 
13All patent families for which the first filing was granted are considered. 
45 
 