    SIT S.p.A. – Consolidated Non-Financial Statement at  
December 31, 2019 
Smart Metering Division  
 
The Metering Division’s research and development department has defined specific medium and long-
term goals to focus development and resource investments on: 
•  Developing products for the world market using different communication technologies, 
including NB-IoT, ZigBee and Walk-by. NB-IOT and Walk-by technologies, in particular, allow 
for significant energy savings.  
•  Improving measurement sensors by using biogas and developing distributed gases containing 
hydrogen. Particular attention has been paid to decreasing consumption, which has a 
beneficial impact on battery life. 
•  Carrying out checks on feasibility, costs and potential alternative measurement technologies 
to thermo-mass (e.g., ultrasonic). 
•  Finalising the feasibility phase of a new product platform. 
 
In particular, during 2019: 
•  The NB-IoT product was approved and certified (MID_ Measuring Instruments Directive) and 
is currently in production. NB-IOT technology will allow products to function without needing 
to change their battery at all during their life cycle. 
•  MID certifications have been extended on some product revisions to reduce costs and 
optimise products. 
•  A ZigBee certification has been obtained from the ZigBee Alliance for the English market, 
while the CPA (Commercial Product Assurance) certification is being finalised with the NCSC 
(National Cyber Security Centre), which will allow for the U6 product to be marketed in the 
UK. 
•  Product certification in accordance with Welmec D (a body set up to promote European 
cooperation in the field of legal metrology) is nearing completion, which will also allow for 
metrology software to be updated. This prevents the necessary removal and scrapping of 
products via the rolling out of a simple software update. 
•  All checking and characterisation activities for the new thermo-mass sensor have been 
completed, meeting all objectives. The supplier is in the process of reviewing the product in 
accordance with our suggestions 
•  The  Metering  division  was  also  selected  by  the  UK  Department  for  Business  (BEIS  - 
Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy) following an international tender to 
develop a domestic meter and hydrogen meter for the commercial and industrial sectors as 
part of the national Hy4Heat project. The Hy4Heat programme covers the entire hydrogen 
for heating chain for both domestic and commercial use.  The objective of MeteRSit’s work 
package  is  to  develop  a  meter  prototype  which  guarantees  safety  and  the  precise 
measurement of hydrogen flows. The prototype should be compatible with sector regulations 
(MID/Ofgem) and country specifications (SMETS 2), while also taking into consideration the 
particular characteristics of hydrogen in terms of its greater risk and reduced heating power 
by volume unit.  From this point of view, MeteRSit’s unique thermo-mass technology can 
reduce meter size, which was another of the tender’s key requirements. The Hy4Heat 
programme requires the delivery of the prototype by the first quarter of 2021.  
•  Finally, the Metering division has planned an LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) with the aim of 
including a greater percentage of recyclable material in its products, and has developed a new 
meter platform to reduce the use of plastic and metal by about 30%. Together with other 
47 
 