    SIT S.p.A. – Consolidated Non-Financial Statement at  
December 31, 2019 
SIT’s supply chain 
Each SIT Group division has a Central Procurement Department for the procurement of raw materials, 
components, semi-finished products and services for all of the divisions’ companies.  
 
The two division share the goal of procuring components, materials and services at the right price, in 
agreed times, at a high level of quality and in compliance with criteria of ethics and sustainability.  
In the pursuit of this goal, the Group strives to consolidate partnerships with its suppliers aimed at 
protecting supply quality and promoting safety, innovation and technological development. Such 
strategic partnerships are beneficial for both parties in terms of competitive advantages, proactive 
cooperation in resolving problems and the development of know-how and innovative solutions for 
market needs. 
 
Direct materials suppliers are, in terms of both numbers and expenditure, those with the greatest 
impact.  
 
Percentage of suppliers by supply type14  2018  2019 
Electromechanical and chemical  24%  24% 
Electronic components  19%  19% 
Metals and raw materials   27%  27% 
Production site services   30%  30% 
 
Suppliers are selected according to various criteria guaranteeing the highest standards of quality, costs 
and execution times. 
 
In addition, in order to guarantee compliance with ethical standards in its supply chain, SIT has defined 
a Ethics code for suppliers and Third-party intermediaries, which expresses the basic principles third 
parties, individuals and entities must comply with in supplying goods or services, or brokering goods 
transactions between the seller and SIT S.p.A. or any of the SIT Group’s subsidiaries. The Code is 
distributed to suppliers during the stipulation of the supply contract, and must be returned signed for 
acknowledgment. This Policy is available on the Group website in the “Corporate Governance” 
section:15  
The Code’s principles define the Group’s commitment to operating in compliance with applicable 
legislation and with respect for human rights, child labour prevention, employee health and safety, 
environmental protection and sustainability, conflict mineral use prohibitions, conflict of interest and 
corruption prevention, fair competition and anti-trust measures, information confidentiality, and 
property rights. 
The Group has defined a Conflict Minerals Policy in order to avoid indirect tolerance of human right 
violations in certain countries, thus undertaking to use and acquire only materials not containing 
minerals  from  conflict  zones,  such  as  the  Democratic  Republic  of  Congo  and  other  countries 
categorised as “Covered Countries”. In particular, the Group requires its suppliers to complete a 
Conflict Mineral Reporting Template (CMRT) indicating the origin of the materials in their supply chain. 
 
14 The table shows only direct materials suppliers and their share of the total number of Group suppliers. 
15 http://www.sitgroup.it/codici-condotta-policies/. 
49 
 