    SIT S.p.A. – Consolidated Non-Financial Statement at  
December 31, 2019 
Furthermore, in addition to other actions implemented to protect human health and the environment, 
the  Group  has  defined  the  standard  SIT  4900000.  This  standard  summarises  supply  materials 
requirements, including those deriving from the REACH regulation and RoHS directive, which Group 
suppliers are required to comply with.  
In line with SIT’s objective of being a versatile and innovative player in the global market, suppliers are 
required to: 
➢  React quickly and effectively to market changes 
➢  Maximise reliability, functionality and punctuality 
➢  Minimise execution times 
➢  Optimise lot sizes 
 
As SIT products are extremely specific safety products, component suppliers are subjected to rigorous 
testing  and  must  guarantee  reliable  supply  standards.  The  Group  pursues  a  policy  aimed  at 
guaranteeing supply continuity through the identification of multiple sources, contractual coverage, 
and back-up and supply interruption risk mitigation plans.  
The following table indicates expenditure in the Group’s production facilities on local suppliers. Local 
suppliers are used most in Italy and the Netherlands, accounting for an average of 38.5% of 
expenditure. However, Romania and Mexico have low percentages of local suppliers. In particular, 
Romania mainly procures materials from Italy, while Mexico procures from the USA and the Far East. 
Given the specificity of its products, SIT applies a procurement strategy that favours the quality of 
procured materials over the geographical proximity of the supplier to production sites. It should also 
be  noted  that  a  high  percentage  of  procurement  for  the  Heating  Division’s  final  products  is 
intercompany, as sizeable volumes of components are manufactured directly by SIT Group companies. 
Portion of spending on local suppliers16  2018  2019 
Italy  46%  38% 
Romania  2%  2% 
Netherlands  35%  39% 
Mexico  3%  2% 
China  12%  19% 
   
 
16 The percentage is calculated from expenditure on direct suppliers, considering local suppliers to be located in the same geographical 
region reported, in addition the calculation consider also intercompany movement. Countries with significant operations are those where 
the Group has production facilities. 
50 
 