    SIT S.p.A. – Consolidated Non-Financial Statement at  
December 31, 2019 
Health & Safety 
In line with its corporate values, SIT pays the utmost attention to occupational health and safety by 
promoting a consolidated culture of prevention. Due to the very nature of the sectors in which SIT 
operates, this culture applies to the design, production and sale of devices and safety systems, as well 
as workplace conditions.  
As regards the situation relating to the spread of COVID-19 which began in early 2020, and as the 
situation worsened in March of the same year, SIT prioritised the health of its employees and 
respected the measures put in place by the health and government authorities.  
Potential risks have been carefully considered for all Group sites, and special attention has been paid 
to locations exposed to the greatest risk of contagion (Padua, Rovigo, Montecassiano and Milan), 
which have been asked to put more stringent measures in place as the situation develops. Specifically:  
- SIT has invited all employees working in any capacity to inform the Company if they are suffering 
from any of the symptoms indicated by the health authorities. Employees have also been asked to 
inform the Company if their closest and cohabiting relatives are suffering from any symptoms, obliging 
them to stay at home once they have informed the Company;  
- Full employee leave has been given to those who have opted to stay at home;  
- Access to company sites, the performance of work activities and employee gatherings (in the 
canteen, coffee area and changing rooms) is governed by provisions and monitored by the company, 
which is prepared to take disciplinary actions if rules are not respected;  
- In particular, stricter hygiene and safety regulations have been put in place at the Company’s sites. 
These include ensuring that people maintain a certain distance from others, introducing protective 
measures, opening up spaces, equipping staff canteen workers with appropriate safety means, and 
installing hand gel dispensers;  
- Workplaces are routinely cleaned according to legislation and following an extremely rigorous 
protocol;  
- The smart-working programme initiated in September 2019 has been extended to the entire 
workforce where possible.  
Protective masks and guidelines for working safely have been sent to the Group’s subsidiaries. 
In 2019, SIT continued a series of initiatives aimed at improving the health and safety conditions of all 
workers in all workplace environments, especially within production facilities. On a half-yearly basis, 
the Safety Plan is drawn up which describes for each industrial site in Italy the activities carried out in 
accordance with applicable legislation and regulations, and establishes objectives to be achieved in 
the subsequent three-year period. A field audit is carried out at the same time and on a regular basis. 
It is aimed at monitoring health and safety conditions and identifying potential areas for improvement. 
The Group intends to maintain a culture of occupational health and safety by ensuring its employees 
are aware of occupational risks and take responsibility for how they behave at work. As such, the 
Group constantly raises awareness and provides training to allow its employees to correctly and 
promptly report risks, failures and faults to those in charge of the site.  
Routine risk monitoring and injury assessments are also carried out at the Group's sites abroad, in 
order to avoid recurring injuries. In addition, the Group continuously plans and carries out routine 
maintenance and improvements on its systems, equipment, buildings and production processes.  
62 
 