    SIT S.p.A. – Consolidated Non-Financial Statement at  
December 31, 2019 
 
 
Figure 2. SIT Leadership Model - expected skills 
 
 
 
Once  an  aspirational leadership  model  was  defined,  a  performance management  process was 
launched to improve leadership skills, promote mutual transparency through feedback, encourage a 
meritocratic culture, and to allow for the personal and professional growth of all SIT employees. 
The project focused solely on the management team during 2019, but will be rolled out to the rest of 
the workforce in 2020. 
 
 
Welfare and well-being 
Also regarding welfare benefits, the Group has always been committed to guaranteeing transparency 
and clarity for its personnel. Assignment schemes do not vary according to different contractual forms 
(e.g. full-time, part-time, fixed-term or open-ended contract), but may vary according to different 
geographical areas, depending on reference standards that may include or exclude certain services.  
SIT is attentive to the well-being and work-life balance of its employees. For this reason, it allows, 
where possible, flexitime schemes in Italian branches. 
As for support for families, the Group provides new mothers and fathers with a baby welcome kit 
containing some useful baby care items. The main benefits include: Life Insurance, Health Insurance, 
Pension Plans, Food Vouchers. 
Starting in 2018, a corporate welfare plan was established in Italy. The corporate plan makes an annual 
amount available to beneficiaries that can be used on a welfare platform dedicated to SIT employees. 
The platform offers services and benefits for families, healthcare, leisure, culture and more, falling 
within applicable tax incentive categories. The platform collects welfare incentive allocations through 
the  National  Metalworking  Collective  Bargaining  Agreement.  Furthermore,  from  2018,  as  per 
applicable bargaining, it has been possible for personnel to allocate part or all of the value of individual 
performance bonuses to corporate welfare, thus increasing the opportunities to use the available 
72 
 