    SIT S.p.A. – Consolidated Non-Financial Statement at  
December 31, 2019 
services. Approximately 10% of total performance bonuses were converted into welfare, and over 
95% of the company population used their welfare benefits within the end-of-year deadline. 
SIT continues to protect its employees around the world with additional healthcare benefits, in order 
to provide them with a form of protection to supplement or replace their national medical and health 
services. These benefits were rolled out to all members of staff in Romania in 2019. 
 
In 2019, a SmartWorking project was also launched at SIT’s headquarters in Padua based on a new 
managerial philosophy that allows people to be more flexible and independent while taking on greater 
responsibility for their work. 
An all-green pilot project focused on "future working" has allowed SIT to improve engagement, 
promote corporate welfare and improve the work-life balance of its employees. 
The concept was developed in collaboration with ISTUD Business School and was initiated with an 
online survey sent to all employees in Padua, who confirmed that SmartWorking very much suits the 
Company’s modern vision of the near future and allows for improved flexibility and managerial skills. 
The pilot project saw around 60 employees from different departments working remotely one day a 
week. Training was provided before the start of the project, and feedback was requested upon its 
conclusion. At the end of the pilot project and once the (very positive) feedback was provided, a 
second pilot project was launched in February 2020 involving another 60 employees. 
The benefits of SmartWorking do not end with an increase in employee well-being and productivity: 
the  scheme  also  helps  protect  the  environment.  Remote  working  solutions  help  reduce  the 
greenhouse gas generated during the journey to and from work.  
Assuming that 13044 grams of CO2 are saved for every kilometre not travelled to and from work, based 
on the first pilot, it is estimated that the Group could produce 17,000 less kilos of CO  a year, with a 
2
plan to plant 705 trees for the emissions that are still produced (Figure 3). 
   
 
44 For further information refer to the website www.jojob.it 
73 
 