    SIT S.p.A. – Consolidated Non-Financial Statement at  
December 31, 2019 
Digital and Lean transformation 
During 2019, SIT launched a five-year digital transformation plan. 
The project rests on three pillars: 1) the review and continuous improvement of processes, 2) the use 
of enabling digital technologies, computerisation, the cloud, mobile/social devices, and the Internet 
of Things 3) the strengthening of digital skills, the active exploration of an end-to-end transformation 
process, and professional and organisational development. 
In this sense, digital transformation can be seen as a means to foster sustainable social development, 
product innovation, and to improve production processes. 
As such, we hope to significantly reduce our environmental impact. We’re hoping to see greater 
efficiency in our operational processes, and faster, more precise ways for employees, customers and 
suppliers to interact, with a consequent reduction in costs and improved transparency, sharing and 
inclusion among stakeholders. 
In terms of social goals, we hope to invest in mobile devices, laptops, hardware and software to assist 
collaboration, in order to allow employees to connect, communicate and collaborate more effectively, 
efficiently and faster than ever before. As such, we have launched the smart working project discussed 
in the welfare and well-being paragraph of this report. 
 
Digital  transformation  will  allow  us  to  standardise  innovative  product  development  processes, 
measure their efficiency more easily and pursue their continuous improvement. Please refer to the 
research and development paragraph of this Non-Financial Report for more information on the effects 
of digital product solutions. 
Digitalisation is also strongly tied to lean production process transformation. Adopting a lean approach 
will allow us to ensure that processes are more streamlined and measurable. This will in turn help us 
to reduce energy consumption, improve employee health and safety, and raise customer service 
levels. 
As is the case for digital transformation, SIT has decided to follow a five-year lean transformation 
implementation plan, which was launched in 2019. 
The aim of the plan is to increase Customer Value Added by optimising processes and reducing waste.  
We launched various initiatives at our plants and headquarters in 2019, all of which are aimed at 
implementing a lean culture and the 5S methodology. 5S activities help make it clear that an organised 
working environment – equipped only with what is necessary – simplifies and optimises work 
processes. Likewise, productive and transactional processes that do away with the superfluous help 
guide the company towards operational excellence. 
In 2019, a model or ‘Temple of Lean’ was designed for SIT. It was anchored to the Group’s strategic 
development axes. A five-year timeline was also defined, along with various targets. The model is 
based on a pillar structure, with a view to the World Class Manufacturing (WCM) principles. 
The  project’s  logic  of  implementation  relies  on  improving  employee  skills  and  developing  the 
organisation  along  pre-defined  paths  and  in  line with  performance expectations.  All of  this  is 
expressed through training and improvement projects aimed at ensuring transformation remains 
sustainable and that the Group continues to pursue a path towards operational excellence. The 
projects will be implemented at the Group’s plants and headquarters.  
76 
 