    SIT S.p.A. – Consolidated Non-Financial Statement at  
December 31, 2019 
SIT’s support for local communities 
SIT has always been committed to maintaining relations with the local areas and communities in which 
it operates, in particular, by supporting local companies, sport associations, social assistance, and 
healthcare research, with a view to making a contribution to the well-being of present and future 
generations. 
SIT fosters initiatives that strengthen ties with the local area, assessing each time their social impact 
and economic sustainability. Such initiatives are promoted through corporate communications, also 
in order to engage employees and encourage their participation. 
Furthermore, its commitment to local communities allows SIT to strengthen ties with scientific 
institutions, schools, and young people, and to promote the culture of sports, education, solidarity 
and environmental protection. 
SIT is committed to pursuing and developing a medium to long-term policy of support for initiatives in 
the areas of research, culture, sport and youth training.  
Described below are some of 2019’s most significant projects, events and initiatives that demonstrate 
SIT's commitment to local communities and its employees. 
Family support initiatives 
•  Internal distribution of the quadrilingual corporate magazine SIT&Talk promotes a shared 
culture and climate of participation across all companies, engaging and informing employees 
and their families. In October 2018, a new periodic publication was launched featuring in-
depth articles on environmental, social and governance issues, with the aim of raising 
engagement in and awareness of the sustainability initiatives and goals. 
•  Mothers were greeted with a traditional serenade on Mother's Day at our SIT Monterrey 
plant in Mexico. The day continued with dancing and music. At the end of the party, a small 
gift was given to all mothers. 
•  A Mr and Miss SIT contest was held at the Christmas party at our plant in Monterrey, 
Mexico, which saw the participation of numerous employees and family members. 
 
Youth training initiatives 
•  At the SIT headquarters in Romania, a partnership was established between the company, a 
nearby high school and the local municipality to create a dual-learning project. Ten students 
were chosen to participate in a school-work experience scheme and were given the 
opportunity to learn about business processes and activities. Students were given meal 
vouchers and daily transport to and from the office. 
•  Also in 2019, SIT welcomed a group of students to its Padua site from the Faculty of 
Educational Sciences, in order to give them an example of the organisation, roles and 
objectives of a multinational company’s Human Resources department. 
Sports initiatives 
•  Always inspired by the world of sport due to the values it represents, SIT again supported the 
Lentigione Calcio football team of Brescello (Reggio Emilia), an amateur team competing in 
the Italian Serie D 2019-2020 Championship season. 
•  Padua Marathon. The Sant’Antonio Marathon is one of the most popular sports events in the 
Veneto Region, with over 23,000 participants. SIT participated with a stand at the finish line 
81 
 