    SIT S.p.A. – Consolidated Non-Financial Statement at  
December 31, 2019 
for employees, family members and friends to whom it had also offered the race registration 
fee and a t-shirt for the race. It was a wonderful opportunity to spend a Sunday exercising and 
having fun with relatives, friends and colleagues, as well as an opportunity to get to know each 
other, and to consolidate family and professional relationships. 
Local area and community impact initiatives 
•  A new mechanical workshop and logistics centre was opened at the industrial site in Rovigo, 
offering employment opportunities to people in the local area of Polesine. 
•  Around the time of Labour Day, the Diocese of Adria–Rovigo wished to establish closer ties 
with the working world and gave a traditional evening prayer at SIT Rovigo in April 2019. 
The occasion was an opportunity to bring together various individuals and representatives 
from the world of work, in order to share opinions about the current situation in the region. 
The event was also an opportunity to encourage people to embrace an open-minded outlook, 
with an eye to creating a positive future in Polesine. 
 
Support initiatives 
•  The SIT Monterrey offices have decided to make donations to various associations, including: 
-  the local fire station 
-  the Cieniega de Flores Civil Protection Services 
-  people affected by the floods in Salinas Victoria, Nuevo Leon  
-  the Dante Alighieri school in Italy 
Initiatives to support medical research 
•  SIT's headquarters in Padua made a donation to the Luca Ometto Association, which supports 
scientific research into glioblastoma.  
•  for the Padua Marathon, SIT provided over 400 t-shirts to its participants in the competition. 
With the SIT logo, and that of the non-profit Luca Ometto Glioblastoma Association, the 
orange-coloured t-shirts added some welcome colour to the race start line. Indeed, SIT, 
through its participation in the marathon, once again supported the association founded by 
Valentina Ometto with the aim of raising funding for scientific glioblastoma research in order 
to improve the effectiveness of treatments and the quality of life of patients and their families. 
•  Christmas Panettone: To celebrate Christmas at the Padua, Rovigo, Montecassiano and Milan 
sites, a gift pack was given to all employees containing a panettone purchased from the Luca 
Ometto Association, which supports research into treatments for glioblastoma. As many as 
1000 packages were delivered. 
Environmental initiatives 
•  A project launched in 2018 continued into 2019 at SIT’s offices in Monterrey, which involved 
planting trees in school grounds and at the company’s headquarters in order to promote a 
culture of sustainability and respect for the environment among young students (future 
adults).  
82 
 