Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
Moreover we reported that: Moreover, the Group bases its critical success factors 
also on its capacity for innovation, as demonstrated by 
Environmental matters
the investments in research and development which 
The  Group  pays  attention  to  the  responsible 
have the objective of creating innovative systems and 
management of its activities, seeking a balance between 
applications to meet the needs of customers and create 
economic objectives and indispensable environmental 
new ones.
requirements.  Moreover,  the  Group  confirms  the 
commitment to adopt a medium to long-term Group  Employees-related matters
environmental policy for the purpose of controlling and 
In  the  Ethics  Code  the  Group  has  codified  their 
reducing the environmental impact of its activities.
commitment to respect and protect the dignity, the 
Respect for human rights  health, the safety and the privacy of their employees and 
collaborators. Moreover, as part of the quality control 
The Group protects human rights through the adoption 
and dissemination of the Ethics Code which requires  system (ISO 9001) adopted by the main manufacturing 
conformity  with  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  companies  of  the  Group,  the  certified  companies 
Rights issued by the United Nations and requires that  safeguard the aspects related to the management of 
it be respected also by its main suppliers. In particular,  the employees. In particular, the Parent Company has 
the Parent Company requires compliance with the Ethics  conducted  a  codification  of  the  procedures  for  the 
Code  by  their  consultants,  distributors,  agents  and  management of human resources as well as a profiling of 
suppliers of critical components. Moreover the Group  the company functions with a detailed description of the 
confirms the commitment to adopt a Group Human  necessary responsibilities and skills. 
rights policy and to institute specific training in this field 
Supply chain matters
especially in those countries where legislation is not as 
restrictive as in Italy. As stated in the Ethics Code, the Group sets as one of 
its objectives that of creating relationships with their 
Fight against passive and active corruption
suppliers that are based on standards of transparency 
This subject is regulated by the Ethics Code of the Group 
and correctness. In light of the renewed and growing 
to which all subsidiaries, associated companies and the 
interest  of  the  organization  in  issues  related  to  the 
main suppliers must comply. Moreover, the subject is 
supply chain, as shown in the materiality analysis, the 
overseen by the Parent Company and its subsidiaries 
Group is committed to the adoption of a Suppliers' Code 
Deka M.E.L.A. S.r.l. and Quanta System S.p.A. through 
of Conduct in order to define and share the principles, 
the Organizational Model pursuant to Italian Legislative 
social  and  environmental  best  practices  and  ethical 
Decree 231/2001. For the purpose of re-enforcing its 
behavior aimed at promoting a supply chain that is both 
anti-corruption and bribery system, the Group confirms 
responsible and sustainable.
the  commitment  to  adopt  a  Group  anti-corruption 
policy  The development and implementation of the  Moreover, the Group is committed to adding to the 
aforementioned plan should reasonably take place by  process of qualification, selection and evaluation of the 
the end of 2019. suppliers in Italy and abroad, a checklist of environmental 
and social criteria to evaluate all potential new suppliers.
Social matters
The  above-mentioned  plan  should  be  implemented 
The Group has always paid particular attention to the 
reasonably by 2020.
quality and safety of its products and, to this aim, the main 
manufacturing companies of the Group have adopted  Moreover, the company is committed to formalize the 
a quality control system and obtained certification ISO  reporting process for non-financial information as part 
9001* and ISO 13485** related to the quality control  of a procedure which defines roles, responsibilities and 
systems  or medical devices. deadlines, by 2019.
For the list of the companies belonging to the Group that are consolidated with the integral method, please consult the section titled "Area of 
consolidation" in the annual financial report  of El.En S.p.A. dated December 31st, 2018.
1Companies certified as per ISO 9001: ASA S.r.l., El.En S.p.A., Deka M.E.L.A. S.r.l., Penta Chutian Laser (Wuhan) Co. Ltd and Penta Laser Equipment 
Wenzhou Co. Ltd, Quanta System S.p.A. and Asclepion Laser Technologies GmbH.
2Companies certified as per  ISO 13485: ASA S.r.l., El.En S.p.A., Deka M.E.L.A. S.r.l., Quanta System S.p.A. and Asclepion Laser Technologies GmbH.
11