Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
Shareholders' Assembly:  the Assembly is the company  in three commissions: the Committee for risks and 
body where the shareholders participate in the decisions  controls, the Committee for remuneration and the 
of the Company on the issues that the law and the  Committee for appointments.
company statutes state are of their competence; the 
The committees are composed of three non-executive 
shareholders'  assembly  nominates  the  members  of 
members,  two  of  which  are  independent. The  work 
the Board of Directors and the Board of Auditors and 
of each committee is coordinated by a president. The 
approves the financials for the year. 
composition,  tasks  and  powers  attributed  to  the 
Board of Directors5: The board is the main body of the 
committees  are  disciplined  by  special  regulations 
system of Corporate Governance and it has the function 
approved by the Board of Directors.
of analysis, sharing and approval of the annual budgets 
During  2018,  with  reference  to  sustainability  issues 
and the strategic, industrial and financial planning of 
and  to  the  communication  of  information  of  a  non-
the Group and the relative monitoring.. The board is 
financial nature in compliance with  D.Lgs. 254/2016, 
appointed by the Shareholders' assembly and has a role 
they attributed to the Committee for controls and risks 
of strategic direction and evaluation of the adequacy 
the task of assisting the Board of Directors by informing 
of the control systems that have been implemented.  
them in the form of proposals and consulting about 
The composition, the role and the functioning of the 
El.En.  Board  of  Directors  are  in  conformity  with  the  the evaluation and decisions related to sustainability 
law and with the Self-disciplining Code  for quoted  issues connected with the activities of the company and 
companies. The Board of Directors that ia now in office  its dynamics of interaction with all of the stakeholders, 
is composed of six members, three of which are non- to  the  social  responsibility    of  the  company,  to  the 
executive; the non-executive members , two of which  examination of the possible scenarios for the creation 
are independent, have been organized, to have  a role  of a strategic plan and the corporate governance of the 
of consultation and proposal in support of the board  companies of the Group. 
COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF  Non-independent administrator
DIRECTORS OF EL.EN. SPA   Independent administrator 
in compliance with art. 147 ter TUF and art. 3 
as of december 31st 2018
Self-disciplining Code 
Gabriele Clementident and Managing directorExecutive  Andrea CangioliManaging directorExecutive  Barbara BazzocchiManaging directorExecutive  Fabia RomagnoliAdministrator Non executive Alberto PecciAdministrator Non executive Michele LegnaioliAdministrator Non executive
si
e
r
P
Directors, divided by gender (%) Directors, divided by age group (%)
33% 17% 50%
WOMEN 50 - 59
MEN 60 - 69
70 - 79
67% 33%
5The members of the Board of Directors were appointed by the shareholders' assembly on April 27th, 2018 and will remain in office for the 
period 2018-2020.
41