Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
El.En. S.p.A. is one of the few listed companies that has had since its founding a woman, Barbara Bazzocchi, on 
its board of directors, first as sole administrator and later as executive administrator.
The  Board  of  Directors  has,  among  its  various  the adequacy of the type of organization of El.En. S.p.A. 
responsibilities,  that  for  internal  controls  and  the  for the aspects that pertain to its area of competence, 
management of risks, in relation to which it determines  the  internal  controls  system,  the  administrative  and 
the guide lines and periodically verifies the adequacy  accounting system adopted by El.En. S.p.A., and their 
and the effective functioning  and making sure that the  correct functioning. Moreover, the Board also acts in the 
main risks related to the activities of the Group have been  role of Commission for internal controls and auditing 
correctly identified, measured, monitored and managed. in compliance with art. 19 D. Lgs. 39/2010. The Board 
Board  of  Auditors::  the  board  is  appointed  by  the  of auditors that is now in office  is composed of three 
shareholders' assembly and has the task of guaranteeing ,  standing  auditors  and  two  alternate  auditors  who 
in compliance with the law and the company statues, the  possess the requirements for honesty, professionalism 
respect of the main principles of correct administration,  and independence. 
BOARD OF AUDITORS
MEMBERS POSITION END OF TERM
Vincenzo Pilla President Approval of financials for 2018
Paolo Caselli Standing auditor Approval of financials for 2018
Rita Pelagotti Standing auditor Approval of financials for 2018
Daniela Moroni Alternate auditor Approval of financials for 2018
Manfredi Bufalini Alternate auditor Approval of financials for 2018
Auditing  company:  the  auditing  company  is  an  companies of the Group follow the traditional model and 
external  entity  which  has  the  task  of  auditing  the 
consequently are administrated by a Board of Directors 
accounts and which is selected by the Shareholders' 
or a sole Administrator and, where necessary, they have a 
Assembly.  The  auditing  company  that  is  presently 
in office is  Deloitte & Touche S.p.A..The other Italian  controlling organ and are subject to auditing.
42