Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
3.2 ETHICS, INTEGRITY AND COMPLIANCE
The El.En. Group is aware of its responsibility towards society and the environment 
in  which  it  operates  and  believes  that  it  is  indispensable  that  ethical  and 
transparent behavior be followed in every aspect of the management of company 
activities, both in relation to the respect of the law and the regulations as well as 
the considerations of the expectations of all of the stakeholders.
For this reason starting in 2008 the Parent Company  and ASA S.r.l. have adopted the Organizational Model 
started using its own Ethics Code  as an instrument for re- in compliance with D.lgs 231/2001 (from now on, 
enforcing and disseminating a company culture founded  "Organizational Model"), which is intended to prevent 
on the importance of ethic and social responsibility in  employees and/or collaborators from committing crimes in 
the conducting of business and company activities.  the interest of the company. This model for the organization, 
The Ethics Code defines the principles and values that  management and control of the company activities is made 
must be followed in every moment of the manufacturing  up of a series of general principles of behavior in the areas 
process and must be constantly observed in collegiate,  which have been identified  as sensitive, for the purposes 
collaborative and business relations: legality, impartiality,  of preventing the  so-called assumption crimes and by a 
honesty,  correctness,  equity,  and  putting  to  best  system equipped with control activities and procedures for 
advantage collaborators and the integrity of people. The  the prevention of these crimes. 
Code is applied to the Group and to all the subjects that 
The areas that are protected because they have been 
conduct activity in its favor. 
identified as sensitive are crimes related to safety and 
The companies of the Group have all accepted the Ethics  health on the workplace (ASA S.r.l. identified only this area 
Code and, where necessary it has been translated into 
as being sensitive for the planning of a special section 
the local language. They have accepted the commitment 
of  its  Organizational  Model);  crimes  against  the  Public 
to disseminate it to their employees and collaborators 
Administration, corporate crimes, receiving stolen goods, 
using the proper channels of communication. The Code 
money laundering, use of money, goods or utilities of 
is always available in its up-dated version on the internet 
illegal origin; moreover,  El.En. S.p.A. and Deka M.E.L.A. 
site www.elengroup.com, in the section titled “Investor 
S.r.l. have identified as sensitive areas also those related to 
Relations/ Governance/ Corporate documents".
the following crimes: market abuse, transnational crimes, 
The rules set forth in the Ethics Code are intended to 
environmental crimes. 
protect the integrity of the Group and to assure their 
With particular reference to the risks related to ethical 
conformity to the laws and to the regulations in each 
behavior, the El.En Group has directed their attention to the 
country in which it operates. The Group is committed to 
prevention of risks related to corruption. 
establishing the opportune channels of communication 
through which they can received reports of violations  In this context, the Parent Company El.En. S.p.A. and its 
or  suspected  violations  of  the  Code,  or  requests  for  subsidiaries  Deka M.E.L.A. S.r.l. and Quanta System S.p.A. 
explanations. The  violation  of  the  principles  defined  have  analyzed  and  considered  relevant  this  risk  and 
in the Code constitutes a breach of contract derived  they have inserted it in their Organizational Model D.lgs. 
from the failure to observe the contract for work and/ 231/2001. 
or collaboration and is a source for compensation of 
These companies have conducted an analysis of the 
damages. 
risks  for  the  committing  of  cries  against  the  public 
In the contracts that have been underwritten by the  administration  (including  those  involving  corruption) 
Parent Company with consultants, distributors, agents  from which. however, no particularly high level of risk 
and suppliers of critical components explicit reference  emerged, in consideration of the existence of procedures 
is made to the Ethics Code of the Group and the other  designed  to  prevent  it  and  the  type  of  business 
party must declare that they have received a copy and 
conducted..  Nevertheless,  they  have  identified  the 
that they accept it. 
most sensitive areas and have inserted a special section 
Moreover,  the  Parent  Company    and  the  Italian  dedicated to the prevention of crimes of this type in the 
subsidiaries, Deka M.E.L.A. S.r.l., Quanta System S.p.A.  Organizational Model.
43