Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
The analysis therefore started with the mapping of the  the Board of Directors; The main duty of the Supervising 
activities and the identification of the risk related to each  Body is that of monitoring and, when necessary, reporting 
of them by attributing a certain number of points. The  to the Board of Directors any irregularity or violation, and 
parameters used for the point system were: the number  to supervise the respect of the procedures set up by the 
of times it had happened in the past, the existence of  Company, as part of the prevention plan of the so-called 
company procedures, the impact of the penalties for  assumption crimes, identified after an in-depth analysis 
this type of crime and the frequency of the event. We  which includes corporate crimes and crimes related to 
decided that the frequency of the event  and the impact  health and safety in the workplace.
of the penalties made it opportune to dedicate a part of  The El.En. Group believes that the knowledge of and 
the Organizational Model to all the preventive activities  adherence to the principles of the Model 231 Ethics 
related to this kind of crime, even if the occurrence  Code must be promoted also through specific training 
in the past (no event of this type has taken place) and  programs for the people who work for the organization: 
the existence of company procedures lowered the risk.  starting this year, for some of the companies that are 
The Ethics Code also contains precise directives related  located in Calenzano, we have begun a specific training 
to correct behavior which are intended to avoid the  program based on Model 231 and conducted by the 
occurrence of corruption. In 2018, no cases or reports of  members of the Supervising Body  for a total of 110 hours 
corruption were registered.  of training which involved 65 employees. For the Chinese 
In order to guarantee  the principles contained in the  subsidiaries instead, there is a specific training program 
Ethics Code and the effective implementation of the  regarding the Ethics Code of the Group for all the newly 
systems for the flow of information and controls described  hired employees. Activities will continue to disseminate 
in Model 231 the companies of the Group that initiated it  in greater detail information on these issue within the 
make use of a Supervising Body which is appointed by  organization.
44