Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
3.3  INTERNAL CONTROLS SYSTEM AND RISK MANAGEMENT
In a context of continuous evolution, where sustainability issues of the company 
activities, the fight against climate change, the protection of the environment and 
the adoption of suitable policies for development have become of fundamental 
importance, the efficient management of risks is a key factor which every company 
must now evaluate with greater attention. For this purpose, the El.En Group has 
defined a System of Internal Controls and Management of Risks which is composed 
of specific rules and procedures in order to be able to evaluate the present trends 
and the new challenges of the market and succeed in taking advantage of the 
opportunities that arise by a careful management of all the related risks. 
For El.En. S.p.A. and the Group, whose objective is the  various levels. The organization of the System of Internal 
sustainability  of  the  company  activities  over  a  mid  Controls and Risk Management is set up as follows:
to long-term period and the creation of value in the  •  The Board of Directors and the Board of Auditors, 
respect of external stakeholders, the system of internal  as  stated  in  the  preceding  paragraphs,  have, 
controls and risk management is understood to be  respectfully, the task of evaluating the adequacy of 
a series of methods of analysis of the procedures, the  the system of internal controls which is being used 
functions and organizational structure and the relative  and conducting the function of the Committee for 
activities conducted in order to identify the main risks  internal controls;
for the company, the methods used for managing them 
•  The  Committee  for  Controls  and  Risks  which 
and the organization of the system for safeguarding 
has the task of supporting the Board of Directors 
against them.  The organization of an adequate system of 
in its evaluations and decisions relative to System 
controls is meant to implement an efficient management 
of internal controls and risk management and, as 
of the company, the safeguarding of the corporate assets, 
mentioned above, starting this year, also regarding 
the efficient management of the company processes, 
sustainability issues. 
the reliability of the information disseminated by the 
•  Executive  administrator  responsible  for 
Company both of a financial and non-financial nature, 
the  System  of  Internal  Controls  and  Risk 
as well as the respect of the laws, the regulations, the 
Management    has  the  task  of  instituting  and 
company  statutes  and  internal  procedures.  For  the 
maintaining an efficient system of internal controls 
purposes  of  building  and  developing  an  adequate 
and risk management; 
system for the management of risk management, the 
Parent Company has defined their own system of internal  •  Internal  Auditor,  appointed  by  the  Board  of 
controls and risk management, first of all, in relation  Directors, has the task of verifying both continually 
to the process of disseminating financial information,  and in relation to single necessities, the operation 
and suitability of the System of Internal Controls and 
based on the CoSO Framework model, consistent with 
Risk Management;
international best practice.The main characteristics of 
the system of internal controls and risk management  •  Executive officer responsible for the preparation 
are  represented,  on  one  hand  by  the  regulations  of  the  financial  statements  of  the  Company 
and procedures and, on the other, by the bodies for  and  other  Company  documents  is  appointed 
governance  and  control.  The  regulations  are  mainly  by  the  Board  of  Directors  and  has,  besides  the 
constituted by a series of general principles codified by  responsibilities  assigned  to  him  jointly  by  the 
the Ethics Code; and, in the second place, by a series of  Executive Administrator in charge of the System 
secondary procedures (like those in ex D. Lgs. 231/01,  of  Internal  Controls  and  Risk  Management,  the 
L. 262/05, L. 81/09, internal regulations concerning the  responsibility of evaluating and monitoring the level 
treatment of confidential information, operations with  of adequacy and efficiency of the administrative and 
related  parties,  internal  dealing,  etc.  which  make  it  accounting internal controls system by conducting a 
possible to act within the reality of the company and to  preliminary investigation;
implement the above mentioned principles of a general  •  Supervising  body  in  compliance  with 
nature. On the other hand, they conduct the control of  Organizational Model ex D. Lgs. 231/2001 has the 
the observance of the rules and procedures on the basis  task of supervising the respect of the procedures set 
of the competencies and functions defined and assigned  up by the Company, also in the area of the prevention 
by the Board of Directors to the different bodies at  of corporate crimes.
47