Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
The  System  of  Internal  Controls  guarantees  the  principles of correctness and transparency and they 
safeguarding  against  risks  related  to  the  pursuance  monitored carefully the process for the selection of 
of  strategic  and  operative  objectives,  reporting  and  suppliers and the maintenance of their performance, 
compliance,  both  in  the  Parent  Company  and  the  by making specific visits to their offices in order to 
subsidiaries which have adopted this approach.  verify  their  capacity  to  satisfy  and  maintain  the 
qualitative requirements needed. .We are committed 
Below is a list of the main risks that have been identified 
to the creation of a Code of Conduct for Suppliers 
that are inherent to sustainability issues:
to define and share the principles, good corporate 
•  Risks related to ethical behavior: the risks that are 
and environmental practices and ethical behavior  
related to a lack of integrity in the management or 
and promote a supply chain that is increasingly 
the employees of the Group, which might give rise 
responsible and sustainable.
to unethical behavior or acts that are not authorized, 
•  Risks related to personnel: these risks are related 
illegal or fraudulent, with particular reference to 
to the fact that the Group does not implement 
issues of active or passive corruption, corruption 
processes for the purpose of attracting, selecting, 
of private individuals and human rights issues. To 
motivating  or  exploiting  human  resources  or 
reduce these risks for the Group we have adopted 
that  there  are  not  adequate  processes  intended 
an Ethics Code to re-enforce the dissemination of a 
to  guarantee  the  respect  of  diversity  and  equal 
corporate culture that is founded on the importance 
opportunity. In relation to the quality management 
of  an  ethical  and  social  responsibility  in  the  system (ISO 9001) used by the main manufacturing 
conducting of business and company activities; the  companies, the issues related to the management 
Parent Company and some of the Italian subsidiaries  of the employees is protected; the Parent Company, 
have  also  adopted  an  Organizational  Model  in  moreover,  has  codified  the  procedures  for  the 
compliance  with  D.lgs  231/2001.  Moreover,  the  management of human resources and has profiled 
Group is committed to adopting an anti-corruption  the company functions with the identification of the 
policy. responsibilities and skills that are required. In all of 
the companies, the training activities are defined 
•  Risks of reputation: because of the nature of the 
annually and, besides the obligatory training that 
sectors in which the Group operates, one of the major 
must be conducted, they register the curriculum 
risks that they face at a corporate level is related to 
requirements  of  the  company  staff.  The  Group, 
the quality and safety of our products and the chain 
moreover, has included in the Ethics Code their own 
of supply; any manufacturer's defects that might 
commitment  to  respect  and  protect  the  dignity, 
occur could compromise the reliability and safety of 
diversity  and  equal  rights  of  its  employees  and 
the final product. If we underestimate the attention 
collaborators
of the clients and of the community in general, we 
•  Risks  related  to  compliance  with  the 
could risk a loss of image and in our reputation, 
environmental and health and safety regulations:  
with a consequent drop in financial performance. 
these risks are connected , on one hand, to the 
The  Group  has  always  directed  particular  focus 
possibility of new regulations for the protection of the 
on the quality and safety of the processes and the 
environment and the possibility of non-conformity 
products.  The  main  manufacturing  companies 
with the environmental requirements stated in the 
of the Group, in fact, adopted a system for quality 
regulations and, on the other hand, the fact that the 
control and have obtained an ISO 9001 certification, 
Group does not implement processes that insure the 
while all of the companies that produce medical 
safety and health of the workers and the possibility 
devices have obtained the ISO 13485 certification 
of non-conformity with respect to the laws in this 
and operate rigorously in conformity with with the 
field. In the Ethics Code, the Group has codified its 
regulations, as is demonstrated by the numerous 
commitment to the protection of the environment 
periodical, programmed and surprise inspections 
and the health and safety of the workers. The Italian 
that  they  have  passed  every  year.  In  order  to 
companies belong to the Group have monitored 
guarantee maximum safety, moreover, as stated in  the issues related to the environment and health 
the Ethics Code, the Group establishes long-lasting  and safety also in relation to Organizational Model 
relationships with its suppliers that are based on  D.lgs 231/2001. In all of the companies, the issue 
48