Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
of health and safety Is managed and monitored  United Nations. Moreover, the Group is committed 
through a series of processes which, although they  to adopting an Ethics Code for Suppliers, a policy 
are not centralized and coordinated at the Group  of human rights and to plan a specific training, in 
level, guarantee that in all the subsidiaries there are  particular in those countries where the legislation is 
procedures related to the protection of health and  not as severe as it is in Italy.
safety of the workers, at the time of their training. •  Environmental risks: these risks are related to the 
•  Risks related to the respect of human rights:  possibility  of  causing  an  environmental  impact 
the risks are related to the respect of human rights  which  has  negative  repercussions  on  the  local 
which might undermine a correct and responsible  territory in which the Group operates, or else that 
management of the activities of the company. The  inadequate measures have been taken to prevent 
risk is related in particular to the activities and to  or reduce this impact. El.En. has always respected 
the suppliers of the Group who operate in countries  environmental requirements in compliance with the 
(for example, those in Asia)  where the legislation  present legislation in force and in the Ethics Code of 
in this field is not so rigorous as it is in Italy. The  the Group, it has repeated its commitment to protect 
protection of human rights is explicitly mentioned  the environment. The Italian companies that have 
in the Ethics Code of the Group, respect of which  adopted the Organizational Model in compliance 
is  required  from  all  the  companies.  The  Group  with D. Lgs. 231/2001 have monitored these issues 
extends the application of its Ethics Code also to  also  within  the  Model. The  Group  is  committed 
the suppliers and explicit reference is made to the  to adopting a policy to monitor and reduce the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights issued by the  environmental impact of its activities. 
49