Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
  4   THE MANUFACTURING PROCESS
4.1 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AS AN INSTRUMENT FOR 
INNOVATION 
 
The critical factors in the success of the El.En. Group are the adequacy of the range 
of products which we offer and the capacity to innovate it continually in order to 
meet the requirements of the market and create new ones. 
92
6
PEOPLE INVOLVED 
RESEARCH 
IN RESEARCH AND 
CENTERS 
DEVELOPMENT  
MORE THAN 117
€ 16MILLIONS 
ACTIVE PATENTS AND 15 
EUROS INVESTED IN RESEARCH AND  PENDING
DEVELOPMENT 
The position of the Group for hi-tech products and the  The  Group  organizes  its  activity  of  research  and 
global competitive context in which it operates comports  development according to mid- to long-term programs in 
a continuous and significant effort in terms of research  order to prepare quickly and continuously products that 
and development of new products and new technologies;  are innovative in their performance and applications.. 
In our research activities conducted in our laboratories, as 
our strong point is the capacity to be single minded, to 
well as that made in collaboration with important research 
innovate considering the requirements of the doctor and 
centers, hospitals and universities, both at a national and 
the patient in the medical sector rather than the client in 
international level, we set no limits since we are driven by 
the industrial sector, starting with every intuition which 
the desire and the passion for everything that is new or 
may arise from the close and constant observation of 
can become new. The kind of research that is conducted 
problems that have not yet been solved.  
is of the applied type for most of the activities  while it 
is theoretical for some specific subjects, usually related 
The skills that have been developed and the enthusiasm 
to  activities  regarding  mid-  to  long-term  innovative 
of our staff are the real difference. The El.En Group and 
objectives.  
the people who work there in fact, have a knowledge of  The innovating capacity of the El.En. Group is demonstrated 
physical, biomedical and technological phenomena that  by the number of patents that the Group has obtained: in 
has matured in over thirty years of experience, which  less than forty years of activity since its foundation 117 
has brought them to have an extraordinary capacity to  patents have been obtained and 15 are pending. . 
improve their own know-how, to innovate the production  The chart below shows the expenses sustained by the 
technologies, processes products and related services.  Group during 2018 for research and development:
54