Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
Thousands of Euros Dec 31st 2018 Dec 31st 2017
Staff costs and general expenses 9.995 8.058
Equipment 197 169
Costs for testing and prototypes 5.404 3.944
Consultancy fees 522 712
Other services 99 54
Total costs R&D 16.218 12.936
The amount of the costs sustained corresponds to about  treatment (the ONDA system, released for sale in 
5% of the sales volume of the Group. The expenses  May of 2018); 
sustained by El.En. S.p.A. are about 6% of its sales volume. •  Preliminary study, development and designing of 
multi-functional platforms for dermatological and 
For the activity of research and development in the  aesthetic applications;
medical sector, the principal areas of development for  •  Preliminary study, development and designing of 
the Group are the following:  systems which integrate and improve the existing 
laser technology for hair removal applications.
•  Clinical experimentation for the extension of the 
applications of “Mona Lisa Touch” laser treatments  In the industrial sector the Group has conducted the 
to  reduce  the  effects  of  the  atrophy  of  vaginal  following activities:
mucous, an extremely important application in uro-
gynecology and urology; •  Development  of  innovative  processes  for  pre-
•  Research and clinical experimentation on the effects  cutting and micro-perforation of labels in a machine.
of laser applications to biological tissue including 
•  Development  of  software  and  algorithms  for 
laboratory studies of biological samples and cell 
advanced high-speed coding in the sector of digital 
cultures; experimentation on the wave length of 
converting. 
laser emissions for which the theoretical models 
•  Increase in the maximum power of laser sources 
include a particularly effectiveness in the treatment 
in  the  RF  range  maintaining  a  high-quality  and 
of some dermatological pathologies or in general in 
modularity of the beam; development of innovative 
the human body.
applications  (for  example,  micro-perforation  of 
•  Research for new clinical applications using the laser 
panels and special applications in the field of digital 
in dermatology (cutaneous ulcers and diabetic feet). 
converting) made possible by the technology;
The healing of chronic ulcers, for example, is based 
•  Research to improve the management and focalizing 
on the unique characteristics offered by the laser 
of the laser beam for high-powered  sources in fiber;
beam during the cleaning phase of the wound and 
•  Continual improvement in the applicative processes 
on the capacity for bio-stimulation operated by the 
of  sheet  metal  cutting  aimed  at  improving  the 
laser light itself, which activates the cells and favors 
efficiency, speed, and versatility for cutting larger 
the regeneration of the skin cells. 
•  Development of new laser systems and improvement  thicknesses through the opportune management of 
of  those  already  developed,  with  emission  of  the high powers available. 
impulses  lasting  pico-seconds  for  dermatological  •  Experimentation  and  multi-disciplinary  research 
applications; (electronics,  optics,  fluid-dynamics)    for  the 
•  Completion of the development of a new system  optimization of the potential of the laser system for 
based on micro-waves as a highly efficient form  flat cutting of sheet metal;
of energy for the reduction of subcutaneous fat  •  Improvement  of  the  performance  of  the 
in various parts of the body  using a non-invasive  galvanometric components of the scanning systems.
For further information on Research and Development of the Group, please consult the Annual Financial Report for December 31st 2018 which is 
available on the web site www.elengroup.com.
55