Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
BEST PRACTICE  
The approach of El.En. S.p.A. in the medical sector
El.En. S.p.A. has recently increased the strategic function of research and development with an aim to 
maintaining the leadership in innovation for the company and the Group in the sector of medical lasers.
For a brief period we have activated a process to maximize the efficiency and effectiveness in the development 
of new products by reducing as much as possible the "time to market", without making compromises at the 
level of quality and reliability. We have concentrated our resources in areas of consolidated experience and 
focused on our core technologies. 
Specific knowledge has also come from other technologies, like, for example, from body-contouring where 
for the first time, we have used microwave technology. For this application and for the aesthetics market in 
general, which is now showing significant growth, new products and new approaches are needed. 
The mid- to long-term objective is to find substantial innovations which will allow El.En to increase its 
competitive advantage on the market with break-through products and consolidate the market quotas that 
have been acquired by opening new niches both in the aesthetics sector and the surgical sector. 
There are three main directives of the technological innovation: first, the implementation of technological 
innovations in the field of photonics, like the diode sources, the laser sources in fiber and the ultrafast laser 
sources (pico-seconds and femto-seconds) in order to improve the interaction between radiation and tissue 
in a way that is both effective and safe. 
In the second place, new specific systems for cooling the tissue in order to reduce to a minimum the collateral 
effects, including pain and inflammation after the treatment and make it possible, at the same time, to 
reduce the duration.
Thirdly, the implementation and adoption of the most sophisticated diagnostic systems which make it 
possible to determine in the most reliable way possible, when the end-point of the treatment has been 
reached and, in this way, guarantee the greatest effectiveness in conditions of maximum safety for the 
patient.
56