Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
4.2 QUALITY AND SAFETY OF OUR PRODUCTS  
 
The Group is aware that the complexity of its business requires high qualitative 
standards and for this reason the commitment that we have and we promote 
for the quality and safety of our products is essential in order to guarantee 
continued growth and success. We have always focused on the phases of design 
and development of our systems; in fact, our value is created through the study 
and application of methods that are increasingly selective, effective and safe.
Every day we are committed to supplying products of  regulations of the institutions in the country in which 
value to our clients in such a way as to create loyalty that  they operate. 
is based on quality, reliability and safety and to guarantee 
Depending on the geographic area in which they are 
these requirements for the product are recognized and 
located and the type of business they run, the different 
appreciated and that every measure be adopted to make 
companies of the Group comply with the standards and 
sure that they are in conformity with the law.
regulations shown below.
To this purpose, some companies of the Group have 
•  ISO 9001;
equipped themselves with  an Integrated Management 
System Manual which is in compliance with TUSSL n. 81  •  ISO  13485  relative  to  quality  control  systems  for 
of 2008, to describe the objectives and the policies of the  medical devices 
Management System for Quality and the ways in which 
•  European directive MDD93/42/EEC (Medical Devices 
it should be applied. The manual defines the general 
Directive);
criteria needed to satisfy the requirements for safety and 
•  National laws of the countries that are members of EU 
performance of products during their entire life cycle, as 
well as the services supplied. and the non-European countries like the  United States 
of  America(21CFR820/803/806),  Japan,  China  (CCC- 
El.En. S.p.A., Deka M.E.L.A. S.r.l., Quanta System S.p.A., 
ASA S.r.l. and Asclepion GmbH also use a Quality Policy  Certification for electronic components and Enterprise 
which guarantees the conformity of the activities to the  standard “CNC laser cutting machine”) and Brazil.
Our products and our quality systems are certified 
44
by the most important institutions at a world level 
THE PERSONS  that are responsible for supervising the safety and 
INVOLVED IN QUALITY 
effectiveness,  above  all,  of  medical  devices.  Our 
CONTROL
companies  periodically  receive  inspections  for  the 
renewal of the certificates they possess, and which are 
indispensable for exporting our products abroad.
57