Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
4.3 THE SUPPLY CHAIN
In the Group there are manufacturing companies that  or it may be outsourced. Purchases of supplies are mainly 
serve the medical and industrial sectors and marketing  related to components and accessories for manufacturing 
companies that serve the medical market. The medical  (technical  accessories,  critical  components,  industrial 
companies  distribute  their  products  to  qualified  accessories,  etc).The  other  categories  of  purchases 
distributors,  directly  to  the  end-user  (medical  clinics,  may  include  office  supplies,  software,  and  computer 
doctors, etc) and also through OEM partners, while the  supplies and packaging for shipments. As far as services 
industrial companies operate on the market mainly by  are concerned, the companies of the Group use outside 
selling directly to the end-users.  suppliers for computer assistance, technical maintenance, 
The specifications of the components of our systems are  scientific laboratory services and certifying institutions, 
established by our technical offices and, on the basis  companies for the disposal of special waste, for publicity 
of our rigorous requirements, the components may be  and marketing, financial services and shipping agents. We 
produced  internally,  manufactures  according  to  our  frequently also use services that are inherent to research 
specifications  by  qualified  suppliers  or  bought  from  and development by hiring highly qualified professionals. 
catalogs. The simplest phases of assembly and work on  During 2018 at a consolidated level the amount of spent 
the components may be conducted either in our factory  for purchases was 207,4 million Euros while the amount 
spent for outsourcing was 7,4 million Euros.
The El.En. Group believes that close collaboration with 
the supply chain is essential in order to maintain a high 
standard of quality in the finished product and, in general, 
in the entire production process. The final objective is 
that of establishing a long-lasting relationship that is 
characterized  by  transparency  and  cooperation.  The 
SEMI FINISHED 
GOODS suppliers  must  meet  the  minimum  requirements  for 
RAW  safety, quality and financial stability in order to minimize 
MATERIAL  
the risk of potential interruptions in the supply and 
unexpected costs. We continually conduct preventive 
analysis  and  evaluations  in  order  to  understand  the 
market trends and monitor the evolution of the present 
SHIPPING
suppliers  and  the  potential  ones,  their  technical  up-
PRODUCTION dating and the regulations for the sector even in relation 
to the marketing of the products they sell to us. 
The  Group  operates  according  to  standards  of  fair 
competition  and  honesty,  legality  and  correctness 
             PACKING
while respecting the legitimate interest of all of the 
stakeholders. The Ethics Code of the Group contains 
DISTRIBUTION
all of the principles and rules that all of those who are 
in contact with the Company are required to follow. In 
the contracts for the sale of critical components that 
INSTALLATION
are underwritten by El.En. S.p.A., the other party must 
AFTER SALES  declare that they have received a copy of the Ethics Code 
SERVICE
and that they accept it. 
60