Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
selectively dries up the blood component which then  to be used for aesthetic medicine, for skin rejuvenation 
slowly deflates until it has completely disappeared. Also  of the face through anti-wrinkle treatments and removal 
in the case of skin discolorations, besides having an  of skin discolorations (age spots, etc) to improve the 
important preventive action, the use of the laser makes  skin appearance or obtain facial firming, rather than the 
it possible to save the skin from the aggressiveness  modeling of the body or hair removal.
of the acids that are traditionally used and to solve  In order to meet the different requirements of patients, 
one problem without creating another. In the case of  the El.En. Group has created numerous types of lasers 
superficial  discolorations  the  laser  strikes  selectively  in order to treat effectively is wide variety of issues 
without destroying the surrounding tissue while, with  related to the rejuvenation of the skin with emissions 
traditional techniques the discoloration was eliminated  characterized by wave length, duration of impulse and 
by controlled abrasion of the skin used along with acid  different levels of power. With laser treatments the most 
substances. The  situation  is  different  for  deep  spots  immediate benefit is the reduction of the recovery time 
where the laser is the only technique available.   for the patient respect to traditional aesthetic surgery; as 
The quality of life is influenced also by the aesthetic  far as the general mid-term effectiveness is concerned, 
image that people have of themselves even when no  the  laser  creates  controlled  micro-lesions  which 
pathological imperfections are present. This fact is the  stimulate the organism to produce new tissue and, in this 
reason that there are so many request for aesthetic and  way, the intrinsic potential of the body, and triggering a 
medical treatments from a population that increasingly  natural and gradual rejuvenation. The impact of these 
wishes to improve their appearance; in today's society  treatments from a psychological point of view is very 
the aesthetic image plays and increasingly important  positive because people do not perceive the change 
role and if you are not able to come close to the common  immediately but day after day and they gradually get use 
standards your dissatisfaction with yourself increases.  to their new appearance. 
Over the years the Group has dedicated growing financial  In the sector of body contouring,  2018 was a very 
and managerial resources to the development of devices  important year because the Onda system was launched 
65