Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
5.2 USES AND BENEFITS OF LASERS IN THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR  
The laser systems that we produce for the industrial sector can be adapted for 
multiple uses and can be applied to many different types of materials. The final 
result that is obtained makes lasers preferable to alternative solutions because they 
avoid the need for further processing and perform cutting, incisions and marking 
with extreme precision. 
Processing executed by a laser is particularly desirable  lots, or for flexible production systems, as is increasingly 
from a point of view of sustainability because of several  requested by the changeability of the demand and the 
factors which make it possible to reduce the amount of  need to personalize the products.
waste by instantly vaporizing the material on which they 
Lasers  are  used  successfully  also  for  prevention  of 
are working and by making clean cuts without producing 
counterfeiting because they can mark paper in a way 
chips or other processing waste. Our marking systems 
that is always original, univocal and easily up-dated: the 
also make it possible to make perforations, grey tones and 
selective removal of the thickness of the material, thus  personalization can be changed continually to create new 
reducing waste. The use of the laser does not comport  holograms which make the paper three-dimensional and 
contact between the parts and therefore avoids the risk  make reproduction even more difficult.
of deformation or accidental breaking as well as tool 
In  the  textile  sector  our  lasers  are  widely  used  by 
wear which, consequently would produce more waste 
companies manufacturing jeans, where the impact of 
material. Moreover, since the laser is managed digitally 
our technology has been significant. In fact, laser have 
by software, the movements that are made are precise 
completely replaced the traditional technologies that 
and the cuts are matched perfectly, thus reducing the 
were used to age the denim material which were achieved 
scrap that is left using traditional cutting technologies. 
by a kind of sanding using silicon powders (which are 
The  reconfiguration  of  the  processes  simply  using  a 
potentially also harmful for human health) or else using 
reprogramming of the software makes it possible to 
save  on  accessory  equipment  because  new  dies  for  the "stone wash" technique with chemical additives or 
each process are no longer required, nor are parts of  "sandpapering", which is very hard work for the person 
material that sustain the dies or the cutting instrument.  who has to do it because of the use of abrasive materials 
Laser processing, moreover, do not add any pollutants  which also have a serious environmental impact since 
and the fumes produced during the processing do not 
they are harmful and difficult to dispose of.
contain chemical additives; for marking laser systems 
 We are proud of the fact that we have contributed to 
make it possible to avoid the use of inks and solvents on 
the  development  and  perfection  of  the  advantages 
fabrics and leathers, with all of the problems inherent in 
the disposal of these substances. Our laser systems are  of these processes which are much more respectful of 
also used for marking bar codes, serial numbers, logos  the environment and of social values because we are 
on plastic materials even a microscopic scale, to cut  aware of the fact that the entire industry must become 
objects in metacrylate and other acrylates, but also for  more sustainable. Through research and development 
the processing of some labels to improve the insertion of  we are committed to the continuous improvement of 
RFID devices which are activated by radio frequency and 
the  performance  of  our  systems  by  increasing  their 
are able to read information, which are used, for example, 
effectiveness and efficiency. We produce CO lasers that 
in the field of high fashion to recognize a garment where  2
allow a considerable saving of energy and, consequently 
the label is attached which in this way becomes a unique 
reduce the environmental impact by up to 25% with 
and "speaking" object: the use of a laser with respect to 
respect to the sources now available on the market. 
traditional technologies in this type of processing makes 
it possible to avoid the use of glues and to avoid the use of  Moreover, we have developed and patented regenerating 
different dies for every different label. The savings on the  cartridges which regenerate gas in cavities and therefore 
dies is economical especially for the processing of small  reduce the environmental impact in terms of waste.  
67