Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
5.4 OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMMUNITY 
 
“The Group wishes to confirm its position not only as a valid point of reference for its 
own shareholders and stakeholders, but also as a pillar of the community. At El.En. 
every day we are committed to making our work have a positive impact on the 
health of people. Our social strategy is that of making available our skills, knowledge 
and instruments with an aim to improving the access to treatment and health care 
for fragile and disadvantaged people all over the world. At the same time we are 
working to improve scientific knowledge. In other words, we are working for science 
and for healthier world.”. (Ing. Salvadeo - General Director of El.En.)
One  of  the  ways  in  which  we  fulfill  our  social  the Getty Museum in Los Angeles. 
responsibilities  is  by  donations  to  specific  non-profit  Last year, the El.En. Group donated a laser to the volunteer 
organizations,  institutions  and  cutting-edge  scientific  organization “Gli Angeli del Bello” in Florence for their 
laboratories all over the world by assisting them in the use  work in the removal of urban graffiti and to contribute 
of new technologies that have been placed at the service  to the return of the beauty of the city by removing the 
of the health of patients as well as for the conservation  ugliness caused by every day acts of vandalism. In2018 
and restoration of works of art. Over the years we have  we loaned, free of charge, a laser to the city of Varese to 
donated our systems to numerous hospitals like Careggi  combat the effects of degradation caused by vandalism.
Hospital and the Meyer Pediatric Hospital in Florence, the 
During this year so far we have donated a laser to the 
Moshi Medical Center in Tanzania, the Pediatric Hospital 
neuroscience sector of the Mondino Istituto Neurologico 
of  Bambin Gesù and the Gemelli Hospital in Rome and 
Nazionale IRCCS. The research activities of the Mondino 
also hospitals in Latin America.
Institute are focused on pathologies and issues related 
Donations of our lasers have also been made to the  to neurology and neuro-psychiatry both in adults and 
Vatican for the restoration of marble sculptures, busts,  children. These pathologies are quite common in the 
statues and fountains as well as paintings, and to some  population and are one of the causes of the high cost of 
foreign museums like the Metropolitan in New York and  health care.
70