Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
A PLAN FOR THE TRAINING OF UROLOGISTS IN AFRICA 
In 2018 our subsidiary Quanta System S.p.A. donated a Tullio Cyber TM to the Saint Camille 
Hospital in Ouagadougou, in Burkina Faso. In partnership with the SIU Foundation which 
trains African urologists to operate using an endoscope which is fundamental for the 
treatment of benign hyperplasy of the prostate, thanks to our laser, they created the first 
clinic in the country that is able to perform minimally invasive urological operations with 
Holmium and Thulium lasers. 
The SIU Foundation has been involved for several years in the prevention and treatment of 
urological pathologies and has often promoted non-profit initiatives aimed at improving 
the welfare of the population and the training of doctors, especially in poor countries like 
Burkina Faso; Quanta System had the pleasure of donating to the hospital in the main city 
of the country, first a Holmium laser that can be used to pulverize stones in the urinary 
tract and, this year a Thulium laser thus creating a center of excellence for the most modern 
minimally invasive treatment of kidney stones and benign hyperplasy of the prostate (BHP) 
thanks to a high level technology that even very few clinics in Europe possess.
The Group, moreover, is committed to sustaining cultural,  artistic and urban restoration and has sponsored the 
social and educational initiatives in favor of the local  twelve  editions  of  the  International  Conference  of  
community  with  the  objective  of  strengthening  the  LACONA (Lasers in the Conservation of Artworks) and 
relations with the surrounding area in which it operates  the six editions of the International Conference APLAR ( 
and with the people involved directly or indirectly in the  Laser Applications in Restoration).
activities of the Group. The basic idea is the promotion 
In particular the Group has been active in promoting the 
of a mutual, positive exchange between the Group and 
following activities:
the local community, which is beneficial to both parties 
•  University  internships,  both  curricular  and  extra-
involved in the projects and activities they develop. In 
curricular;
particular, the companies of the Group are committee, in 
different ways to: •  Alternate school-work projects that involve students 
from local schools  and allow them to attend school 
•  donations  to  and  sponsoring  of  humanitarian 
inside of a working situation by combining theoretical 
organizations;
aspects with practical ones; in begin to participate in 
•  participation in associations for occupational training  the workplace already starting in secondary school 
in the sectors of pharmaceuticals, biotechnology,  in order for them to gain orientation in relation to 
and  medical  devices  (Fondazione VITA  –  Istituto  future employment;
Tecnico Superiore per le Nuove Tecnologie della Vita).
•  Participation in career day  events which are open-
Moreover, the Parent Company El.En. S.p.A. is a member of  door initiatives for a reciprocal exchange  between 
the Association “Partners Palazzo Strozzi”, and a member  the companies and recent graduates looking for 
of “Assorestauro”, the Italian association for architectural,  their first job.
71