Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
The concern for human resources is an issue of great  Group sustains and respects the rights of the individual 
relevance also in the field of quality management which  in conformity with the Universal Declaration of Human 
most of the manufacturing companies of the Group have  Rights issued by the United Nations, and is committed 
adopted in conformity to regulation ISO 9001. On the  to avoiding any form of discrimination. This commitment 
basis of this regulation, in fact, the certified companies  also applies to all aspects  of work relations including 
have been supervising certain issues like the selection,  hiring, training, job assignment, promotions, transfers 
training, and development of skilled personnel and the  and severance. 
definition of the responsibilities for the various functions. Equally important for the creation of an inclusive work 
The Parent Company, in particular, has conducted an  environment are the initiatives promoted to facilitate the 
analysis for the codification of management procedures  balance between family life and the workplace, starting 
for human resources (hiring, remuneration, etc.) as well  with the possibility of working part-time.
as  the  profiling  of  the  corporate  functions  with  the  The Group is committed to the need to create a dialog 
identification of the responsibilities and skills that are  with its employees for the purposes of reconciling the 
necessary. On the basis of this, we have planned ad hoc  requirements of the individual with those of the company. 
training courses to respond to the training needs of each  This commitment is demonstrated in the management 
one.  of different categories of contracts: from national and/
or sector contracts to collective/corporate contracts and 
In the Group there are 1368 employees and together we 
even contracts stipulated individually.
form an international  Group that is growing and that is 
called to operate in contexts that are very different on a  In particular, in Italy they apply a National Collective Work 
global level; ours is, in fact a multicultural team: of 100  Contract (the personnel is 100% covered by collective 
people in the El.En. Group, 46 work in Italy, 38 in China, 10  contract), in Germany, the workers' committee signs a 
in Germany and the remaining 6 are distributed among  collective agreement  on an annual basis (86% of the 
Japan, Brazil and France. employees are covered by collective contracts; the rest 
are selling personnel who underwrite a different type of 
The diversity of our people is evident in the statistics:
contract); in France the apply to all of the employees the 
•  The El.En. staff is, for the most part, young, in the 
Collective Convention IDCC n°1982; in Brazil it is annually 
range from 30 to 50 years old (63%),  with 24% of 
conduct a collective negotiation, while in China and in 
the employees being under 30 years old, and 13% 
Japan they follow the local legislation. Moreover, in Japan 
over 50. 
the management conducts a monthly meeting with its 
•  The work force is represented by 24% women, a 
employees to discuss any relevant issues. At the Group 
percentage  which  reaches  31%  if  one  considers 
level, it should be noted that 57% of the employees 
just the white collar employees; the manufacturing  are covered by agreements stipulated on the basis of 
nature  of  the  activities  of  the  Group,  in  fact,  collective bargaining.
determines the prevalence of men in the category 
The period of advance notice to employees for reasons 
of laborers.
of organizational change in the Italian companies of 
We are committed to creating a working environment  the Group is regulated by the CCNL and can vary from 
that  is  constructive  and  dynamic  and  supports  the  a minimum of 7 to a maximum of 120 days on the basis 
heterogeneity  of  people  and  talents,  is  stimulating  of the CCNL that is applied, the professional category 
and offers opportunities for professional growth. The  to  which  they  belong  and  their  seniority;  for  other 
management of the human resources of the Group aims  companies of the Group, for example, those in China 
at the integration and respect of all the diversities, and  and Japan, the national law and usual practice requires 
rejects any form of discrimination based on nationality,  advance notice of 30 days. For the German companies 
sexual orientation, age, political or religious opinions. The  the advance notice may vary from one to three months.
75