Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
6.2 HEALTH AND SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE
   
We  are  committed  to  guaranteeing  a  workplace  that  is  healthy  and  safe  in 
conformity with the laws and regulations regarding the safety of workers and of 
the environment. Our objective is that of disseminating and developing among 
people the awareness of the risks related to the work they are doing and to 
promote responsible behavior on the part of all the workers with programs that 
are intended to prevent damage to people.
more than 
4.000
-14% 
OF 
HOURS OF SPECIFIC TRAINING 
THE INJURY RATE 
ON HEALTH AND SAFETY ISSUES
COMPARED TO 2017
As stated in the Ethics Code, the El.En. Group is committed  81/2008; also, the manufacturing companies monitor 
to the dissemination and consolidation of a culture of  health and safety on the basis of the local laws. The Italian 
safety by promoting responsible behavior on the part  companies of the Group have also analyzed the issue 
of all of its collaborators. For this purpose the Group is  of health and safety in relation to the Organizational 
committed to: level in compliance with D.lgs 231/2001. The principle 
•  Always  acting  in  conformity  with  national  and  that is followed is that the policy of safety should be 
international standards; raised to a corporate level like all the other values that 
characterize the strategy of the Company. Just as we 
•  Managing dangers and risks related to very task and 
make use of organizational systems for the management 
every activity; every variation in the organizational 
of  economic  resources,  in  the  same  manner,  safety 
layout at every level, comports an up-date of the 
must  represent  an  essential  value  which  must  be 
relative documentation;
protected and implemented constantly, with the help 
•  Supplying competence and awareness of the risks 
of an organizational system which is able to identify 
related to the environment and to the tasks through 
the  instruments,  the  responsibilities  and  the  direct 
continuous information and training; 
motivation  and to express the commitment of the top 
•  Periodic revision of the procedures and the work 
management in relation to this subject. 
safety instructions in order to modify and improve 
From  this,  the  commitment  to  the  respect  of  the 
them;
regulations  related  to  health  and  safety  in  the 
•  Adoption of good practices in the management of 
Organizational  Model  are  derived,  with  an  aim  to 
contracts and sub-contracts in order to reduce the 
promote a significant reduction in workplace injuries; the 
risk of interference;
recognition that the responsibility for the management 
•  Search for the best technology available for the  of safety regards the entire company from the employer 
protection of the individual and the collectivity. to  the  each  individual  worker,  on  the  basis  of  his 
In  all of the manufacturing companies of the Group  tasks and skills; the commitment to assign adequate 
the issue of health and safety is monitored by processes  human and financial resources towards the objective 
which, although they are not centralized and coordinated  of reducing injuries and that of constantly improving 
at a Group level, guarantee in each subsidiary that there  working conditions, and the promise that workers will be 
are procedures related to the protection of the health  adequately informed and trained in relation to the risk 
and safety of the workers and the implementation of  connected with the processes. 
actions for their correction or improvement. On  the  basis  of  the  Organizational  model  the 
In the Italian companies this issue if regulated by D.Lgl.  following  measures  are  planned  the  identifying  and 
79