Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
locating, among the various company functions, the  RSPP (Manager of Prevention and Protection Services) 
responsibilities connected with the issues of health and  and the RSL (Workers' Safety Representative) attend and 
safety,  the  mapping  and  self-evaluation  of  risks,  the  represent all of the workers. In line with a policy of the 
implementation of training programs.  greatest transparency, in the periodic meeting of the 
For the companies located in the area of Calenzano, the  Parent Company a member of the Supervising body is 
central role of the HSE office in the management of safety  invited to participate as well as all of the persons who are 
has, over time, given us a more consistent and uniform  members of the company safety staff. 
vision of the company policies in relation to this issue.
During the meeting the following subjects are discussed:
In  all  of  the  manufacturing  companies  there  is  a 
- up-dating of any modifications to be made to the risk 
plan  for  a  procedure  for  identifying  risks  related  to 
evaluation document;
safety and health of the workers: in Italy this activity is 
-  evaluation  of  the  trend  in  the  number  of  injuries, 
codified in the Risk Evaluation Document (DVR); in the 
professional diseases and health supervision;
Chinese companies the risks related to the workplace 
are formalized and communicated to the workers by  -  selection  criteria,  technical  characteristics,  and 
means of the "Worker's Manual"; also in the German  effectiveness of the individual protective devices which 
and Brazilian subsidiaries, the analysis of the risks is  have been added or modified;
formalized is specific documents which are periodically 
- safety information and training programs for executives, 
up-dated. The identification of the risks precedes the 
middle managers and workers. 
identification  and  implementation  of  the  corrective 
During each meeting a new, improved safety program 
and/or preventive actions. Most of the subsidiaries have 
is explained, in which they describe all of the objectives 
adopted a procedure for reporting of risks by workers 
that the Prevention and Protection Services have set to 
and they have elected safety representatives among the 
achieve the next year. 
workers.
During this year the Italian companies of the Group held  The German and Brazilian companies also have specific 
periodic meetings in conformity with art.35 of D.Lgs.  commissions dealing with health and safety which meet 
81/08, in which the employer, the company doctor, the  periodically to evaluate the management  of these issues. 
80