Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
For  the  Brazilian  company,  the  health  and  safety  is  conducted,  all  of  the  companies  have  set  safety 
representatives of the workers meet once a month to  procedures  and  individual  and  collective  protection 
monitor the situation.  devices for the risks that are connected to artificial optical 
In all of the production companies there are representatives  radiation. In particular, all those involved in production 
that  are  responsible  for  safety  and  health  issues  (for  have individual protections and, in a different manner, 
example, the employer, the RSPP and managers for the  there are devices for individual or collective prevention 
Italian companies, the general manager or department  like barriers, container boxes and turn-styles to  delimit 
manager for the Chinese companies, the employer and  the production areas. The issue of safety is also monitored 
the safety manager for the German companies). in the non-manufacturing companies by means of the 
In all of the production companies there are training and  collection and monitoring of data related to injuries.
information programs regarding health and safety both  At a Group level in 2018 they registered 29 injuries in the 
at the start of employment and later, at regular intervals.  workplace, which is about the same amount as last year; 
The structure and type of training courses is defined by 
in any case, considering the number of new employees 
the individual companies but, in general, all of them have 
that was registered  the injury  rate6  showed a drop and 
programs with training for generic risks as well as those 
decreased from 13,2 to 11,4. The main types of injuries 
with risks connected to specific types of work, first-aid 
were lesions and contusions, mostly to the arms and legs.  
courses and periodic up-dating courses. 
During this year so far no serious injuries or deaths have 
In  2018 health and safety training courses  at a Group level  occurred. When an injury occurs the companies conduct 
were conducted for a total of 4.045 hours.  
an investigation to determine the cause and take  new or 
Considering  the  type  of  production  activity  that  improved preventive measures.
81