Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
6.3 THE WELFARE OF THE PEOPLE 
   
The welfare of our people is a key factor in the success of the Group. In fact, 
technical skills are not enough to guarantee a good result; it is necessary for the 
company to offer its employees an environment that can stimulate their potential 
and their ability.
To support, promote and implement the welfare of our  a few months ago, it will be possible starting next year to 
people the El.En. Group considers welfare an innovative  convert up to 50% of the amount owed to the employee 
instrument  with  respect  to  the  traditional  types  of  as a performance bonus into welfare services e/o goods. 
remuneration and incentive and it is destined to become  With this agreement, the companies have also offered 
an integral part of a modern and efficient management  improved treatment with respect to the CCNL now in 
of resources. Welfare programs are now planned by the  force by guaranteeing an extra day of paid leave on 
Japanese subsidiary and two of the Chinese subsidiaries.  the occasion of the birth of a child with respect to that 
The Italian companies of the Group, in compliance with  offered by the present regulations and moreover, the 
the CCNL of the sector which is applied, issue a part of  first three days of absence for an illness of not more than 
the remuneration in  flexible benefits. In particular for  five days will be remunerated 100% even after the third 
the companies at the headquarters in Calenzano, by  reoccurrence. The subsidiary Quanta System S.p.A. in the 
second level agreement introduced the possibility for 
using a specific platform, every employee may chose 
each employee to convert the entire performance bonus 
the benefit or the service which he/she deems most 
into welfare.
suitable for their interests and needs, like, for example, 
the expenses for assistance at home, and health services,  As  determined  by  collective  bargaining  the  Italian 
reimbursement  for  school  expenses,  supplementary  companies adhere to health care funds for all of their 
pension provisions, training courses, recreation, goods  employees. 
in kind, and collective transportation services. Moreover,   For the employees of the companies in Calenzano, the 
by means of a company agreement that was signed just  Group has always offered free cafeteria service. 
84