Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
  7   ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
For the Group, the environment represents a primary asset  its activities as well as the prevention of potential risks 
which must be protected. To this purpose the activities  which may rise in this regard by implementing corrective 
that have been planned are aimed at finding a balance  measures which respect the present regulations and beat 
between the economic objectives and the requirements  practice on this issue.
of the environment in order to respect and protect the  As already mentioned, the Group is committed to the 
rights of future generations in line with the principles of  adoption  of  an  Environmental  Policy  with  an  aim  to 
sustainable development. The Group is committed to the  controlling and reducing the environmental impact of its 
monitoring of the environmental impact generated by  activities.
7.1 ENERGY CONSUMPTION
   
We create light, energy and waves. Lasers are the cleanest form of energy that 
one can imagine for the environment.
The Group is committed to the reduction of its energy  liters. We  consumed  11.412  liters  of  bio-ethanol. The 
consumption by taking appropriate measures like the overall consumption of energy therefore was 41.413 GJ. In 
replacement of neon ceiling lights with LED lights and the  percentage terms most of the energy consumption can be 
promotion of behaviors and habits which favor the attributed to the use of electricity (about 37%); 35% can 
be attributed to the use of company vehicles and 27% to 
saving of energy and promote the development of an 
the consumption of natural gas for heating the buildings. 
environmental conscience in people.
During 2018 moreover, the Group did not use sources of 
The energy consumption of the Group consists mainly in 
renewable energy certified by guarantee of origin.
the use of natural gas, diesel and liquid propane gas e as 
fuel for heating the offices and factories and automotive  In 2018, in order to offer a better reporting of the energy 
fuel, as well as the electricity bought directly  from the  consumption of the Group, we added the data related 
network and used to heat and to cool the buildings and  to the consumption of diesel fuel and gasoline for motor 
for the manufacturing processes.  vehicles, which were not available last year7. The increase 
In particular, in 2018, the company consumed 310.832  in the energy consumption is mainly due to this fact as 
m3  of  natural  gas  and  5.750  liters  of  LPG. The  total  well as to other factors like the increase in manufacturing 
consumption of electricity amounted to 4.270.387 kWh;  activities and in the number of people employed by the 
the amount of diesel fuel and gasoline used was 409.116  Group. 
Quanta System S.p.A. installed a cogeneration plant which, in 2018, produced an 
amount of electricity equal to 42% of the total consumed by the company.
7For the cars for general use we considered 70% of the overall consumption. The consumption of vehicle fuel for the cars belonging to the Italian 
companies located in Calenzano and a part of those related to Lasit S.p.A., were estimated, starting from the expense, by means of the average 
annual price of gasoline and diesel fuel listed on the website of the Ministry of Economic Development.
88