Consolidated Non-Financial Statement 2018
ABOUT OUR REPORTING
This document represents the second edition of the  The  scope  of  the  economic  and  financial  data  and 
Consolidated Non-financial Statement (hereinafter the  information is the same as that of the Annual Financial 
“NFS”)  of  the  companies  belonging  to  the  industrial  Report. The scope of the social and environmental data 
Group comprised of El.En. S.p.A. (hereinafter the “Parent  and information presented is the same as that of the 
Company”) and its subsidiaries (hereinafter the “El.En.  companies consolidated on a line-by-line basis in the 
Group” or “the Group”). The NFS reports, to the extent  Group Annual Financial Report.
that is necessary to ensure an understanding of the 
With reference to the significant changes which occurred 
Group’s operations, performance, results and the impact 
during the period being reported it should be noted that 
regarding the topics considered material and set out in 
on January 2nd, 2018, the creation of the Cutlite Penta 
Articles 3 and 4 of the Legislative Decree 254/16, with 
S.r.l. company became effective; to this latter company, 
reference to the financial year 2018 (from the 1st of 
Ot-las S.r.l., as part of a process of re-organization of the 
January to the 31st of December).
activities of the Group in the cutting sector, conferred all 
As established by Art. 5 of Italian Leg. Decree 254/16, this  of their activities related to laser cutting systems. 
document constitutes a separate report and is marked 
The  information  and  the  data  reported  refer  to  the 
with specific wording in order to connect it to the NFS 
financial year 2018 (from January 1st 2018 to December 
required by law.
31st 2018). The data related to the previous financial 
The  NFS  represents  a  first  step  towards  an  even  year, when available, are reported only for comparative 
more  transparent  and  comprehensive  sustainability  purposes and to facilitate an evaluation of the trend in 
communication, as well as being an opportunity for  the activity. The restatements of the data previously 
communicating the annual results of the sustainability  published have been clearly stated.
performance  that  have  been  achieved  during  the 
In addition, to fairly present the Group's performance 
financial year 2018 by the Group.
and ensure the reliability of data, the use of estimates 
This NFS has been prepared in accordance with the  hasbeen limited as much as possible. Any estimate in this 
new standard «Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability  document is made using the best available methodsand 
Reporting Standards» established in 2016 by the GRI -  is expressly noted. 
Global Reporting Initiative (hereinafter “GRI Standards”), 
The Consolidated Non-Financial Statement is published 
according to the «Core» option. Furthermore, for the 
annually: this 2018 version was approved by the Board of 
preparation of the document the Guidelines CE 2017/ Directors of El.En S.p.A. on March 14th 2019.
C215/01, have been taken into account.
The NFS was subject of a limited assurance engagement 
The selection of the topics and the indicators reported  (according to the criteria set out by the ISAE 3000 Revised 
in the document was based on the information assessed  principle) by Deloitte & Touche S.p.A. which, at the end 
as relevant for the Group and its stakeholders during  of the work performed, released a specific report with 
the  materiality  Analysis  described  in  the  chapter  regard to the compliance of the information contained 
"Sustainability"  of  this  document.  Concerning  the  in the Consolidated Non-financial Statement prepared 
information required by Art. 3, sub-section 2 of D.lgs.  by El.En S.p.A. as required by the Legislative Decree 
254/16 it should be noted that in consideration of the  254/2016.
business activity of the Group, the polluting air emissions 
The El.En. Group is aware of the company's responsibility 
other than greenhouse gases did not turn out to be 
to society and to the environment and has initiated 
relevant.
a  program  of  continuous  development  regarding 
The reporting and editing activities of this document  sustainability which has given rise, among other things, 
involved several Functions across all the geographical  to the Group Sustainability Plan which was approved by 
areas in which the Group operates, centrally coordinated  the Board of Directors of El.En. S.p.A. on November 14th, 
by the working group dedicated to the project.  2018 and described in the chapter "Sustainability".
10