Code of Ethics
In 2006, for the first time, Isagro S.p.A. adopted the Charter of Values and the Code of Ethics (now known 
simply as the Code of Ethics), which it updated and extended to all companies in the Group in 2011. In 2016, this 
document was reviewed and updated with a view to completing and adding details to the numerous sections of 
which it is made up. 
The Code of Ethics was designed with a view to establishing common principles applicable to all countries in which 
the Isagro Group operates, in line with the laws and regulations in force in each country. In particular, the purpose of 
this document is to guarantee observance of the fundamental rights of all collaborators, in line with the company’s 
mission and promoting the development of a common company culture. 
The Code expresses unavoidable principles for conducting business, such as legality, integrity, transparency, 
diligence, professionalism, confidentiality, social equity and value of the person.
The Group’s Code of Ethics is available in Italian and English on the company’s web site www.isagro.com.
This code defines and regulates the following areas:
Management of relations with the shareholders
•  Corporate Governance: the Group’s governance is based on the highest standards of transparency 
and fairness in managing its business, in such a way as to create value for the shareholders, ensure 
correct management of the entrepreneurial risk and guarantee a high-quality product;
•  Administrative  management  and  financial  communication:  the  Group  operates  with  absolute 
transparency, adopting special procedures to guarantee the correctness and truthfulness of the 
company’s communications and to prevent corporate crime and market abuse.
 
Management and protection of human resources
•  Equal  opportunities,  discrimination  and  harassment:  Isagro  observes  the  principle  of  equal 
opportunities in the work environment, committing itself, at the same time, to create an environment 
free of discrimination and that safeguards the dignity of each individual worker;
•  Forced labour, child labour, illegal work and freedom of association: the Group condemns all forms of 
forced labour, child labour and illegal work and recognizes and respects its workers’ rights to create 
trade union organizations;
•  Conflict of interest: all recipients of the Code of Ethics are obliged to avoid conflicts of interest. Even 
when there only appears to be a risk of a conflict of interest, the collaborator must notify his boss;
•  Protection of IT tools and privacy: the Code of Ethics regulates the need to respect the company’s 
policy on the use of the company’s IT tools and the protection of the privacy and personal data of 
all human resources;
•  Health and safety: Isagro is committed to spreading a culture aimed at promoting safe working 
conditions within the organization, by adopting policies and preventive measures that minimize 
health risks.
16