Management of customer relations
•  Quality control and customer satisfaction: every company in the Group undertakes to reach high 
standards of quality and to pursue the satisfaction of its customers;
•  Contracts and communications with customers and the management of incoming financial flows: in 
observance of the Group’s ethical principles, Isagro undertakes to ensure that the communications 
comply with the company’s policy. In addition, full traceability of the incoming financial flows is 
required, in line with the anti-money laundering legislation.
Management of supplier relations
•  Selection of the supplier and purchasing process, supplier conduct and integrity and management 
of outgoing financial flows: Isagro selects suppliers on the basis of their reliability and reputation. 
The Group demands honest and transparent behaviour from its suppliers, with particular regard to 
anticorruption, human rights and its workers’ rights. Full traceability of the outgoing financial flows is 
required, in line with the anti-money laundering legislation.
Management of community relations
•  The Group operates the aim of creating richness for the entire community, in line with the principle 
of competition and environmental protection.
Management of relations with other categories of stakeholders
•  The rules set out in the legislation in force are applied to relations with Public authorities, consultants 
and other collaborators.
Intra-group relations
•  All the companies in the Group are requested to respect the values expressed in the Code of Ethics, 
sincere cooperation in pursuing the objectives, full respect of the law and the legislation in force.
•  Each company undertakes to avoid behaviour that could be detrimental to the integrity, autonomy or 
image of the company itself or the Group. The information, in particular for the purposes of drawing 
up the consolidated financial statements and other communications, must circulate within the Group 
in accordance with the principles of truthfulness, correctness, completeness, clarity, transparency, 
within the scope of business of each company.
17