Corporate Governance
The Group is aware of the importance of the role played by an effective and efficient Corporate Governance system 
in achieving business objectives and creating sustainable long-term value. The Corporate Governance system is 
represented by the set of principles, rules and procedures that govern the decision-making process and guide 
the business activities, in addition to guaranteeing efficient and transparent control and monitoring. The Isagro 
Corporate Governance model complies with current regulations and is in line with provisions of the Corporate 
Governance Code approved by Borsa Italiana S.p.A.’s Committee for Corporate Governance Committee of listed 
companies (the “Corporate Governance Code”), applied by the company since 2003.
The model adopted by Isagro envisages the following corporate bodies: the Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of 
Directors (BoD), the Board of Statutory Auditors and internal Board of Directors committees, such as the Control 
and Risk Committee and the Appointments and Remuneration Committee.
The Shareholders' Meeting of 24 April 2015, decided that the Board of Directors should have eight members, 
including three women, three aged between 30 and 50 and five over 50 years of age. The Board of Directors will 
remain in office until the Shareholders' Meeting held to approve the financial statements for the year ending 31 
December 2017. The Board of Statutory Auditors, in office since 28 April 2016, has five members and will remain in 
office until the Shareholders' Meeting called to approve the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 
2018.
The membership of the Board of Directors as at 31 December 2016 is shown in the following table.
Executive  Appointments 
Risk And 
(e) – non- And 
Title Nome Gender Year of birth Ind. Code Ind. CFL Control 
executive  Remuneration 
Committee
(ne) Committee
Chairman and Chief  Giorgio 
M 1942 E - - - -
Executive Officer Basile
Maurizio 
Deputy Chairman M 1948 E - - - -
Basile
Riccardo 
Director M 1979 NE - - - -
Basile
Christina 
Director F 1974 NE - - - -
Economou
Gianni 
Director M 1945 NE - - - -
Franco
Enrica 
Director F 1969 NE X X Ch -
Maria Ghia
Adriana 
Director F 1948 NE X X - Ch
Silvia Sartor
Stavros 
Director M 1945 NE X X M M
Sionis
18