Main Risk Factors for Sustainability
Risk of concentrating products on a  Risk associated with the operation of the 
limited number of distributors plants and research centers
The Isagro Group sells its products to a large number of distributors,  The production plants are subject to operational risks that could 
who subsequently market them in the countries where the Group  cause significant damage to property and reductions in production. 
has no distribution network. Reductions in turnover towards one or  With regard to the research activities, the Group conducts the 
more of these distributors cannot be ruled out, and this could have a  studies  necessary  to  complete  the  dossiers  required  by  the 
significant impact in terms of total sales with negative consequences  authorities to obtain the registration of new active ingredients 
on the Group’s economic, financial and asset situation.  and new formulations. The Group has purchased equipment that 
protects against the risks and has taken out insurance policies 
to cover the risks associated with unscheduled stops but their 
occurrence cannot be ruled out.
Climate-related risk Product liability risk
The sale of Agropharmaceuticals is closely associated with climatic  The products marketed contain chemicals that are potentially harmful 
conditions. Although the Group adopts a diversification policy for the  for man and the environment. Although these products have been 
markets on which it operates in order to cover the largest possible  tested and have marketing authorizations, the risk that the Group may 
number of markets in both hemispheres and, despite the fact that  be subjected to liability actions associated with presumed product 
it plans to enrich its current product portfolio, there is no guarantee  defects for damage caused to things or persons cannot be ruled 
that such diversification policies are implemented effectively and are  out. The Group subjects the products developed and marketed to 
capable of eliminating or reducing this kind of risk.  detailed quality analyses and has taken out insurance policies to 
cover damages caused to customers and/or third parties by the use 
of the Group’s products. 
Supply risk Commercial risk
The Group uses high-quality raw materials and components normally  The Group operates in a sector subject to a continuous technological 
purchased  from  selected  suppliers.  In  order  to  prevent  supply  evolution and, although it pursues a strategy aimed at optimizing the 
difficulties due to this selection of suppliers, the Group continually  efficiency of its manufacturing processes, the risk of it not managing 
qualifies new suppliers. If the Group does not manage to maintain  to patent new-generation products could have a negative effect on its 
the current supplier diversification, it could have trouble finding raw  economic, financial and asset situation. Its presence and operation on 
materials of an adequate quality or in sufficient quantities to meet its  several international markets, and its strategy of development on new 
production requirements or undergo increases in the supply costs. overseas markets expose Isagro, among other things, to a series of risks 
associated with the geopolitical and macroeconomic conditions of the 
countries in which it operates.
Intellectual property risk
Scientific innovation represents a critical factor for the Group’s 
success: the expected results also depend upon the Group’s ability 
to obtain patents for its new products in Italy and overseas, and to 
develop new know-how. There is no guarantee that the Group will 
manage to develop new patentable products: it could therefore be 
forced not to market the product or to stipulate licence agreements 
with third parties. In addition, the Group uses proprietary processes, 
know-how and non-patented data that it considers industrial secrets 
and that are protected by stipulating confidentiality agreements with 
its employees, consultants and contractual partners. 
22