Ownership structure and Investor Relations
The company’s ownership structure has one majority shareholder, Piemme S.r.l., which is the controlling entity of 
Holdisa S.r.l., the direct holding company of Isagro S.p.A. with an interest equal to 53.7% of the total. The remainder 
is float on the stock market. As at 31 December 2016, the share capital of Isagro S.p.A. totalled € 24,961 thousand, 
fully subscribed and paid up, and comprised 24,549,960 Ordinary Shares and 14,174,919 Growth Shares.
Significant shareholders of Isagro S.p.A.
Holdisa srl 53,70%
Float 46,30%
The creation of value for shareholders and for all other stakeholders, and likewise the management of relations 
and transparency in financial activities, is one of the Group’s key objectives. In this respect, Isagro considers the 
public disclosure of financial reporting to be important. In fact, eliminating any discrepancies in disclosures and 
guaranteeing the maximum level of information possible to all stakeholders is - for the Group - the best possible 
strategy for managing the investment plans.
In 2016, Isagro organised conference calls at the time of publication of the Group’s quarterly, half-yearly and annual 
results. In-depth informative events are organised during the year for potential investors, in addition to those on 
the events calendar held with Group consultants and the two STAR Conferences attended (in Milan and London), 
envisaged as opportunities for meeting with the financial community. Furthermore, to demonstrate the value of the 
information shared, 17 press releases were issued during the year. 
In 2014 Isagro Group issued an innovative financial instrument called Growth Shares, a category of shares specially 
designed for companies with a controlling entity, which, in the absence of voting rights: 
•  awards an “extra dividend” (20% in Isagro’s case) over and above any established for ordinary shares; 
•  establishes automatic conversion by articles of association (which cannot be modified without the authorization 
of the Growth Shareholders’ Meeting, into Ordinary Shares if control is lost (in Isagro’s case, if Piemme drops 
below 50% of Holdisa and Holdisa below 50% of the ordinary shares of Isagro) and in all cases of a mandatory 
takeover bid.
The Growth Shares originate from the consideration that, in a company having a controlling entity, the right to vote 
represents a non-decisive element and an unexercised right for a minority shareholder. From this point of view, 
Growth shares go beyond the limits of other categories of special shares, ensuring, in addition to the extra dividend, 
a protective mechanism such as automatic conversion in cases in which it becomes important for the minority 
shareholder to hold ordinary shares.
Consequently, Growth Shares:
•  from the point of view of assets, are equivalent in terms of theoretical value to Ordinary Shares;
•  from the point of view of income, if dividends are issued for Ordinary Shares, ensure a higher dividend and 
therefore a higher value than the latter.
24