Economic value generated and distributed
Isagro is actively committed to creating long-term economic value. Once generated, this value is redistributed 
among all the Group’s stakeholders.
The economic value generated and distributed during the year is explained in a reclassified Income Statement in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements of Isagro for the year ending 31 December 2016. The net global added value 
of the Group as at 31 December 2016, totalled over € 143 million.
Distribution of economic value generated by the Group at 31.12.2016.
1,90% 
0,02%  2,71% 
20,42%  Suppliers Remuneration
Staff Remuneration
Financial System Remuneration
Public Authority Remuneration  
74,94%  Company Remuneration  
The majority of the value generated - 74.94% - is distributed to suppliers (as indicated by the items raw materials 
and consumables used, costs for services, other operating costs, change in finished product inventories and work 
in progress), followed by personnel remuneration (20.42%) and Public Administration (2.71%). The remaining 
portion (around € 3 million) of the value generated is distributed between the financial system and the company.
Sponsorship event
Isagro S.p.A. is the main sponsor of the Festival Paganiniano in Carro, the place of origin of the ancestors of Niccolò 
Paganini and where the Società dei Concerti de La Spezia has coordinated the event since 2002 in collaboration 
with the Municipality of Carro, the local tourist office, other participating municipalities, the ‘Amici di Paganini’ 
association and some sponsors.
The Società dei Concerti de La Spezia, founded in 1969 and the organizer of over 2,000 concerts, is the most 
important institution for spreading musical culture in the province of La Spezia: it began 15 years ago with just three 
concerts organized in the small municipality of Carro. The event dedicated to the musical virtuosity of Paganini 
is developed today in nine municipalities in the province of La Spezia, above all in the upper and middle valley of 
Vara, and is characterized increasingly by the quality of the programme and the musicians, as demonstrated by 
the growing success in terms of audience. The Festival, the sixteenth edition of which was held from 15 July to 14 
August 2017, has the support of the Region of Liguria and that of the MIBAC – Ministry of Cultural Heritage and 
Activities. It also received an important contribution from the Carispezia Foundation within the scope of the 2016 
“Cultura in Rete” competition.
25