Innovation, Research and Development
The Group’s strategic approach to Research and Development has gone through two phases in the past and is 
currently going through a third phase. 
In the first phase, from 1993 to 2005, Isagro’s strategy was to establish partnerships with companies with no 
research activities but with considerable sales/distribution capabilities, so as to share the costs of research and 
ensure an adequate distribution outlet for its new products. This was done through a spin-off of the research 
activities in Isagro Ricerca Srl with the participation of a series of minority shareholders and through specific 
innovative research agreements. 
In the second phase, from 2006 to 2011, Isagro gradually regained possession of the Research, Development and 
Innovation activities, taking full control of Isagro Ricerca and merging it into Isagro S.p.A.
Finally, in the light of the prolongation of the times and investments necessary for the development of new molecules 
that concerned the entire industry and the concentration processes triggered by it, Isagro based its activity on the 
co-development of new molecules with third-party organizations. In this way, Isagro invents the molecule on its own 
(i.e. the discovery phase) and subsequently looks for one or more partners interested in co-investing with Isagro in 
the development phase, acquiring sales rights on individual markets or groups of markets, depending on the case.
In this way, Isagro can realize the full potential of its inventions and obtain an adequate commercial value from its 
inventions through collaboration with third parties.
At its Research Center in Novara and field testing station in Galliera, Isagro currently employees about 100 workers 
in Research, Development and Innovation, investing about 10% of its annual turnover in these activities.
In particular, Isagro’s research activity is carried out in various lines of work, with the objective of defining products 
qualified as “worthy of development”. In 2016, the Group concentrated mainly on fungicides, products against soil 
parasites and weed killers. At the same time, Isagro pursued the development of products at an advanced phase, 
such as fungicides, isomers and copper-based products. Finally, during the course of the year, the Isagro Group 
obtained 33 new marketing authorizations in many different countries of the world.
Impact on agricultural development
Despite the significant progress made in cultivation techniques over the past few years, in 2011, 870 million people 
were still undernourished. More recently, the increase in demand for cereal products has been due in part to the 
demand for biofuels, in the search for an increasing abatement of pollutant emissions and the greenhouse effect.
The demand for cereals is expected to increase by about 30%, equivalent to another 600 million tonnes per year, by 
2025, by effect of the increasing world population, as well as increased economic prosperity in emerging countries 
(with diets increasingly rich in protein) and the demand for biofuels. 
In order to maintain sufficient levels of food production, farming production will have to increase, particularly in the 
areas of Asia with the highest growth rates but often characterized by agriculture with a limited use of technical 
means like Agropharmaceuticals. These major global trends contrast with the limited total amount of cultivable land, 
the expansion of which is rather slow and problematic: the availability of land for agricultural use is hard to increase 
and, in some countries, is decreasing due to the expansion of industrial activities or increasing urbanization. 
Land for agricultural use is therefore becoming an increasingly limited resource, from which its full potential must 
be extracted, also through the use of technologies such as Agropharmaceuticals, which make a considerable 
contribution to agricultural productiveness. It is estimated that with an inevitable loss of 40% of production, the 
33