of social and environmental criteria. It is pointed out that the Indian subsidiary will incorporate indicators of respect 
for the environment in their selection processes starting from 2018.
Should the Group not manage to maintain the current supplier diversification or should tension occur on the supply 
front due to a reduced number of suppliers or shortage of raw materials, or an increase in competition from the 
other operators in the sector, the Group could have difficulty obtaining raw materials of an adequate quality or 
in a sufficient quantity to cover its production, or undergo increases in their supply costs, with possible negative 
repercussions on its operation and the economic situation and assets of the Group.
In 2016, the value of the total annual expenditure amounted to € 68.4 million, divided between over 250 suppliers.
Total expenditure by product category in 201611
  
1% 
14% 
Active Ingredients
10% 
Co-formulants/Basic chemistry
Packaging
Technical services
58% 
17%  Other
In particular, in line with the previous year, the most significant item is represented by the purchase of active 
pharmaceutical ingredients, which amounts to € 39.7 million (equivalent to 58% of the total). Another particularly 
significant item is the purchase of technical services, € 9.4 million, which comprises the services outsourced with 
a contract for mechanical maintenance, waste transport and disposal, surveillance and reception. This item also 
comprises technical engineering services. The Co-formulants amount to € 11.6 million (17% of the total) while 
packaging accounts for 10% of the total expenditure (€ 6.8 million).
With regard to the procurement of strategic non-proprietary raw materials, and, in particular, TFE (Tetrafluoroethylene) 
– a non-fungible and non-transportable product used in the synthesis of technical Tetraconazole – the Group uses a 
single, qualified supplier with which it has a long-standing trade relationship and whose contract is due to expire in 
2020 with a possibility of renewal to 2025. The Group’s main Biostimulant (known as Siapton) – which, however, unlike 
TFE, is easier to find on the market as it does not present some of the characteristics mentioned above – at the time 
of publication of this report is purchased from a single supplier, with whom the contract stipulated expires in 2017 
(this contract has, however, been renewed every 3 years for over 20 years).
Although there are other suppliers of TFE and Biostimulants (including Siapton) on the market, Isagro must take 
appropriate measures to replace these suppliers, or to determine whether and to what degree it should change 
its current supply model. This could entail an increase in purchasing costs of TFE and/or Siapton, and difficulties, 
in terms of time, in adopting an alternative solution and repercussions on the Group’s ability to procure these raw 
materials with respect to the production plan, with consequent risk of negative effects on the Group’s economic, 
financial and asset prospects.
11 Percentages expressed in values in Euro.
47