Who we are
5 plants, 4 in Italy  
Turnover of €149.7 mln
and 1 in India
€ 14.1 mln investments in Research,  
EBITDA of €16.2 mln 
Development and Innovation
618 employees Sales in 80 Countries
Isagro S.p.A., based at via Caldera 21, Milan, is a company indirectly controlled by Piemme S.r.l. and active in 
the industrial sector of agropharmaceuticals. In fact, Isagro operates in the field of research, intellectual property 
management, and the development, production, marketing and distribution of agropharmaceuticals, investing in 
the discovery and development of new molecules and active ingredients with a low environmental impact. The 
Group operates worldwide on the market of agropharmaceuticals and biostimulants, providing a vast range of 
innovative, specific solutions with effective formulations ensuring excellent productivity with a limited environmental 
impact. Isagro has production plants at 5 sites, of which 4 in Italy (Adria, Aprilia, Bussi sul Tirino and Novara) and 1 
in India (Panoli-northwestern Mumbai, state of Gujarat), with direct distribution in Colombia, India, Spain and United 
States, and in Brazil since April 2017. Isagro S.p.A. has been listed on the Italian Stock Exchange (Borsa Italiana) 
since 2003 and was admitted to the STAR segment in 2004.
Aware of the importance of planning the future, Isagro proposes numerous development projects that concern 
both active ingredients and new formulations. With reference to the research and development phase, the Group is 
projected towards expanding the biosolutions sector, characterized by products destined to become increasingly 
important in business strategy.
The Isagro business model is based on the consolidation of its role as an originator and predeveloper of products, 
assigning the complete development of new molecules to third parties, for a licence in the exploitation rights. 
Through this strategy, despite limiting its commitment to development, a sector characterized by large investments 
and a medium/long-term management horizon, with a time to market of 10-12 years, the Group can play an active, 
leading role in the initial research, which requires a high level of technical knowledge.
6