›  An initial classification phase; type and horizontal relationship with 
›  An in-depth analysis; the other organisational units, to de-
1
›  A final review and any corrective or  fine control safeguards and provide 
improvement actions. legal  support  to  address  business 
needs aimed at achieving commer- Id
e
The resources involved are constant- cial and performance objectives; n
t
ly trained for the launch of any new  ›  Proactive: identifies the areas that  ity
products and services and/or evolu- need improvement in all company 
tion of existing ones. Thanks to the  processes with a Quality Based mod-
alignment with the omnichannel evo- el, formalising the remedial action 
lution of the interlocutors, there are  plans and monitoring and support-
no limitations in the choice of chan- ing their implementation. 2
nels through which complaints may 
be filed. Thanks to the use of digitised  In addition to a Customer Satisfac-
G
records, the trend in formalised and  tion survey in 2018 which will be re- o
v
received complaints is monitored by  peated every two years and thus in  er
n
the Credit Management and Business  2020, the Group further stepped up  an
c
Information areas. The sharing of this  the opportunities to meet and in- e
information  with  management  and  teract with its customers, intensifying 
the control functions takes place on a  the planning of physical events (con-
monthly basis through a report on the  ventions  and  festivals)  and  virtual 
3
trends in written complaints, prepared  events (webinars) staged to support 
on a quantitative and qualitative basis. the different areas of business. The 
The Credit Management area has be- initiatives were undertaken with the  P
e
gun a revision of its approach regard- dual objective of expanding the mar- op
le
ing  terminology  and  classification,  ket  and  facilitating  the  collection 
with the aim of guaranteeing the same  of  commercial  contacts,  such  as 
treatment of all complaints through  Cerved Next, Webinar Fondo Centrale 
a tracing, management and resolution  PMI, Osservitalia, Fondazione Bellisa-
process uniform for all portfolios.  rio, Industria Felix (with 4 events), Con-
findustria, Fintech District, Anti-Money  4
Lastly, processes to monitor improve- Laundering  Exhibition,  Confires  and 
ment  activities  are  being  defined,  Credit Fair.
C
which will make it possible to antici- o
n
t
pate and satisfy customer need in  In 2019, with the goal of increasingly  in
u
a more proactive and innovative way.  customising the customer journey,  it
y
The  complaint  resolution  activity  is  the Group implemented tools and 
carried out through a Quality Based  algorithms aimed at improving 
model using the following resolution  customer profiling and thus deliv-
approaches: ering an offering of information that 
5
›  Preventive:  uses  an  end-to-end  matched the actual interests. At the 
modality to engage the employees  same time, several lead generation 
responsible for resolving customer  campaigns were activated with the  S
o
c
complaints in all operating process- objective of creating new contact op- ie
t
y
es; portunities and broadening the cus-
›  Operational:  creates  a  consultant  tomer base. 
6
E
n
v
ir
o
n
m
e
n
t
101