CERVED GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
proprietary scoring suite on the basis  By 2020, the Group’s goal is to extend 
of which the creditworthiness of the  the  selection  methodology  based  on 
subjects questioned is assessed. The  ESG criteria to the whole supply chain.
merchandise categories with a higher  In line with the provisions of the 
environmental impact are the subject  Code  of  Ethics,  the  Organisation, 
of cost management activities and re- Management  and  Control  Models 
negotiations, with the aim of reducing  adopted by the Group Companies and 
consumption  and  greenhouse  gas  in compliance with the Human Rights 
emissions. Policy, suppliers must carry out their 
activities  in  respect  for  workers’ 
The  selection  based  on  socio-envi- rights,  with  particular  reference  to 
ronmental criteria continued in 2019  freedom of association or collective 
in the calls for tenders for facility  bargaining, thus preventing the risk 
management services of the group’s  of violation of human rights. Suppliers 
properties  which,  as  in  2018,  were  must also agree to operate consist-
carried out at an Italian level and con- ent with the provision of the Organ-
cerned the cleaning, maintenance and  isation,  Management  and  Control 
surveillance of buildings and techno- Models (Model 231) regarding anti-
logical systems. The issues thus iden- corruption and the Code of Ethics. 
tified are monitored on an ongoing  The  employees  responsible  for  se-
basis  through  specific  procedures  lection are responsible for complying 
defined in the technical specifications  with the principles of fair competition, 
(Capitolati Tecnici). Specifically, in or- abiding  by  existing  company  proce-
der  to  verify  compliance  with  the  dures and selecting suppliers based 
requisite environmental and/or so- on specified criteria.
cial standards, suppliers must under-
go detailed on-desk and on-site verifi- Considering the specific product cate-
cations for the entire duration of the  gories purchased and the geographi-
contract. The technical specifications  cal location in which the suppliers are 
(Capitolati Tecnici) govern the activi- located, the Group has not detected 
ties, also of an environmental or social  events  and/or  highlighted  signifi-
nature, that suppliers must be able to  cant  risks  regarding  the  restriction 
control in order to be qualified. of  trade  union  freedoms  (right  to 
For example, the criteria include: free  association  and  collective  bar-
›  environmental certifications re- gaining of workers), the exploitation 
garding waste disposal; of child labour and/or in dangerous 
›  planning and designing activities  conditions, nor concerning the use of 
and specific field analyses. forced labour. Cerved has in any case 
established that the principles set out 
The selection through these last cri- in the Code of Ethics and within the 
teria takes place with the request of  Group Policies must be respected by 
specific socio-environmental require- “all persons connected to each Group 
ments and following the evaluations  Company  by  working  relationships 
of impact on sustainability.  and, in general, by all those who oper-
Some  beneficial/penalising  assess- ate for these companies, whatever the 
ment criteria for scoring computation  relationships that connect them”, thus 
are listed below: also including suppliers.
›  type of products used (e.g., Ecola- In  line  with  the  new  Sustainability 
bel certification); Strategy and the Environmental Poli-
›  energy management activities; cy the Group has set itself the goal of 
›  experiences and proposals to re- carrying out more in-depth mapping 
duce environmental impact; of its supply chain to be able to identi-
›  experience and proposals for social  fy all the risks related to ESG issues. 
responsibility policies (e.g., certifi- On-desk and on-site audits will be car-
cations). ried out following the mapping, specif-
ically on the suppliers most at risk.
104