CERVED GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
Informative reports are also available  FINANCIAL INCLUSION AND 
on topics of economic interest pre- MARKET TRANSPARENCY IN A 
sented  “in  a  nutshell”  to  facilitate  SUSTAINABLE PERSPECTIVE 
understanding, and thus promote fi-
nancial education and economic de- With more than 1,500 billion in dis-
velopment, free tools are also avail- bursed  bank  loans  and  commercial 
able that allow performing analyses  credits  thanks  to  its  credit  risk  as-
and studies on personal financial data.  sessment services, Cerved offers the 
In particular, the website features a  market transparency by supporting 
Cash Flow Calculator, a free tool that  banks  and  businesses  in  their  pro-
can be used to input a company’s eco- cesses  of  disbursement  and  access 
nomic and financial data and measure  to credit. With Cerved Rating Agen-
its liquidity easily and quickly. Addi- cy, SMEs (Small-Medium Enterprises) 
tional information provided includes  are given assistance in making them-
infographics  with  specific  sector  selves transparent and more attrac-
outlooks  and  numerous  interviews  tive to potential investors. Thanks 
and articles. to the new fintech platform Cerved 
Confirming  its  attention  to  financial  Money&Go,  which  goes  straight  to 
education, the Group will add an Ed- the heart of the problems of SME fi-
ucational section to its portal know. nance,  the  financial  inclusion  of 
cerved.com  where  some  complex  small and medium-sized enterpris-
and  structured  issues  of  economic  es is favoured with advanced invoice 
interests are presented in a straight- payment.
forward manner, making the content  Lastly MBS Consulting - Management 
readily understandable. In 2019, sev- for  Business  Sustainability  -  Group 
eral  tools  and  educational  videos  company acquired in July 2019, has 
were also published, presenting in a  been contributing to the implemen-
clear and intuitive fashion laws, regu- tation of sustainable development 
lations and rules of conduct concern- policies  and  the  transformation  of 
Academy Cerved:  ing companies and their businesses. business models for over 20 years by 
training for the  Finally,  Cerved  has  an  Academy  to  promoting  a  multi-stakeholder  ap-
Italian support the training of Italian com- proach  that  integrates  sustainability 
 companies panies in the field of financial culture,  issues into corporate decisions in or-
growth,  digital  transformation  and  der to build a lasting competitive ad-
managerialisation. vantage for customers.
Support for legislative decisions 
of the national economic system: 
the institutional role
Cerved’s role as a preferential interlocutor of the main financial, 
economic and legislative institutions is supported by a wealth of 
data, information and assessment unique at the national level. 
The Group supports institutions  of charge, improving the financial 
and policy makers in making  transparency of the national banking 
economic-political and legislative  and economic system and increasing 
decisions by providing information,  awareness of the structure and 
data, ideas and position papers free  dynamics of the markets in which 
112