companies operate.  ›  the consolidation of relations with 
institutions  of  reference  for  the 
1
In 2019 the Group decided to launch  company’s business;
a structural activity to strengthen in- ›  the improvement of its positioning 
stitutional and social relations and  and visibility among decision makers  Id
e
public affairs through: and opinion leaders. n
t
it
y
›  starting  legislative  monitoring  Various initiatives supporting institu-
to  provide  timely  information  on  tions were implemented in 2019:
the activities of the main reference 
stakeholders, which have relevance 
for Cerved’s business; 2
Cerved’s initiatives to support the institutions
G
o
v
e
DEFINITION OF BUSINESS INFORMATION INDUSTRY STANDARDS  rn
a
Together with the trade association ANCIC (National Association of Business Infor- n
c
e
mation and Credit Management Companies), Cerved, which also sits on the board 
of directors of the association, is among the main promoters of the definition of 
the Code of Deontology and Good Conduct for the processing of personal data 
carried out for commercial information purposes, and participates in the work table 
3
to define the industry standard on the subject.
P
SCIENTIFIC PARTNERSHIP WITH CNDCEC  e
o
p
In May 2019, Cerved was chosen by the National Council of Chartered Accountants  le
and Accounting Experts (CNDCEC) as a scientific partner of the work table that will 
define the indicators with which warning procedures are activated. Cerved has large 
databases relating to the business world and specific and methodological skills that 
allow it to identify statistically significant indicators, also taking into account the par-
ticular characteristics of the companies (size, product sector, year of incorporation).
4
ABI-CERVED OUTLOOK
C
o
Created on a half-yearly basis and available on the ABI (Italian Banking Association)  n
t
website, the ABI-Cerved Outlook disseminates estimates and forecasts of bad loan  in
u
entry rates of non-financial companies by size class, with the aim of expanding the  ity
pool of information available on the national economic fabric.
INPS BIG DATA ANALYTICS
5
On 7 May 2019, the workshop “Big Data in the Public Administration” was held in the 
headquarters of Palazzo Wedekind in Rome, organised in collaboration with Cerved 
Group. The event was promoted by Cerved in collaboration with INPS (National Insti- S
o
tute of Social Insurance). They have collaborated since 2018 to make Cerved’s data on  cie
t
the financial statements of all Italian capital companies available on VisitINPS Scholar.  y
By combining INPS and Cerved databases it is possible to develop analyses with a 
remarkable level of detail on a plurality of economic, political and social issues by 
relating granular data taken from INPS services and data on trends in the production 
system taken from companies’ financial statements. It is also possible to detail the in-
formation at sector and territory level and possibly enrich it with semantic web tools  6
and big data analysis.
E
n
v
The Group is also working to assist the  the standards. In this sense, the role  ir
o
auditors  and  new  Corporate  Crisis  of Cerved Rating Agency and analysts  n
m
Composition  Bodies  (OCRI)  in  car- will be fundamental. en
t
rying out the new tasks envisaged by 
113