complete communication in order to  opinions of financial analysts on the 
reduce uncertainty and any infor- same, are found in a specific Investor 
1
mation asymmetries. Relations section of the website www.
The team organises numerous oppor- company.cerved.com. For the trans-
tunities for involvement and commu- mission and storage of Regulated In- Id
e
nication with the financial community,  formation, Cerved makes use of the  n
t
it
particularly  in  key  corporate  mo- eMarket SDIR distribution system and  y
ments such as quarterly results and  the eMarket STORAGE mechanism.
the  Shareholders’  Meeting.  The  in- In  2019  the  Investor  Relation  ac-
volvement process involves the iden- tivities focused on a strategy based 
tification of all the relevant events  mainly on the following activities:
in which the company intends to par- 2
ticipate during the year. This includes  ›  preparing  and  providing  docu-
participation  in  conferences  organ- ments concerning quarterly results 
G
ised by brokers (sell-side) that follow  and documents for the Sharehold- o
v
the stock, as well as the organisation  ers’ Meeting; er
n
of entire roadshow days, allocating  ›  participation in events with the fi- an
c
them to the different brokers based  nancial community and conference  e
on their knowledge of a particular fi- calls with investors, at the request 
nancial centre and the investors cover- of brokers, and at the direct request 
gae. In these circumstances, the Chief  of the investors themselves;
3
Executive Officer and CFO, together  ›  carrying out investor care and pros-
with the Investor Relations Manager,  pect targeting activities;
present the main results of the peri- ›  monitoring analyst estimates and  P
e
od (quarterly, half-yearly, annual), the  internal reconstruction of consensus  op
le
business trends and strategic guide- estimates;
lines and make themselves available  ›  monitoring  the  performance  of 
to  answer  any  questions  throught  the Cerved stock;
dedicated Q&A sessions. There is also  ›  monitoring and updating the main 
a dedicated mailing list for the finan- regulatory  changes  introduced, 
cial community, with which the com- which could affect relations with the  4
pany  periodically  communicates  the  financial community.
relevant financial news. All econom-
C
ic-financial information relating to the  o
n
t
company, as well as the main perfor- in
u
mance indicators of the stock and the  it
y
Investor Relations activity 2019
5
13 international 
S
o
conferences (sectoral and  n. 9 non-deal roadshow cie
t
generalist) y
> 60 conference calls 
1 Sustainability Day  (cognitive/ follow-up) 6
(Borsa Italiana event)
E
n
v
ir
> 20 meetings at on
m
Cerved Group,  e
n
t
at the request of investors.
119