Community support through 
1
donations and sponsorships
Id
e
n
t
it
y
In addition to the main community support activities, Cerved 
also carries out utility and social solidarity activities that can 
positively affect and bring benefits to the community. 
2
G
o
As defined in the Code of Ethics and  The Cerved Group has made the prin- ve
r
reaffirmed by the Community Sup- ciple of giving back to communities  na
n
port Policy approved by the Board of  in which it operates its own, always  c
e
Directors on 13 March 2020, the pro- showing sensitivity and openness to 
jects aim to satisfy needs expressed  support the needy with which it shares 
in the social, educational, training and  the territory. With this in mind, the in-
environmental  spheres,  as  well  as  itiative “Cara Cerved Ti Scrivo” was  3
those of sports and art. launched, which invites all employees 
to propose deserving projects aimed 
P
Milano City Marathon: Cerved sup- in particular at children and young  eo
p
ported the RunChallenge project pro- people who live in difficult situa- le
moted by the PlayMore! Association  tions, promoted by non-profit asso-
to  introduce  disabled  children  to  ciations active in the regions where 
running.  The  Group  participated  in  the group has offices. “Caro Cerved 
the solidarity race with two company  Ti Scrivo” is an ad hoc interdiscipli-
relay teams, each comprised of four  nary committee made up of repre-
4
employees.  The  eight  runners/fund- sentatives of all the Group’s corporate 
raisers  were  able  to  raise  addition- functions  which  meets  monthly  to 
al funds for each relay race through  examine the proposals received and  C
o
n
sponsorships provided by colleagues  identify the projects to be supported. t
in
and friends. u
it
y
The project is inspired by the prin-
Maria  Letizia  Verga  Committee:  ciples of transparency, which is re-
Cerved  gave  a  donation  to  support  flected in the entire evaluation and re-
this organisation that devotes its activ- porting process, as well as by sharing 
5
ity to the study and cure of child leu- initiatives analysed and identified by 
kaemia. The offer of qualified medical  the Committee on the basis of propos-
and psycho-social assistance guaran- als received from employees. The initi-
S
o
tees the young patients the highest  ative was launched in December 2019,  "Cara Cerved  c
ie
possibility of being cured and a better  and more details on the selected ac- ti scrivo"  ty
quality of life. Employees then partici- tivities and projects will be described  supports 
pated in a fundraiser for research and  in the Sustainability Report relating to 
young people
were involved in the initiative #Uno- the reporting period of 2020.
DueTreStella with the aim of collect-
ing gifts for the patients of the care  6
home.
E
n
v
ir
o
n
m
e
n
t
121