CERVED GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
come into force in 2020 as well as  In  particular,  a  project  to  optimise 
introduce new vehicles39 with low CO   the management of the building’s 
2
emissions. air conditioning systems operating 
hours in San Donato Milanese led in 
◗ Real estate and energy efficiency 2019 to energy savings of around 
3% compared to the previous year. 
As stated in the Code of Ethics and  Considering  the  increase  in  the  or-
reiterated in the Environmental Pol- ganisational structure of the Cerved 
icy, Cerved undertakes to adopt an  Group over the last year, the increase 
approach geared towards energy sav- in head count (increased by about 
ing and the containment of emissions  6%) and the larger amount of square 
into the atmosphere by optimising en- metres  occupied  (about  8%  more 
ergy consumption and reducing emis- than the previous year), it is reasona-
sions into the atmosphere from the  ble to assume that the energy benefit 
vehicles, tools, properties and infra- obtained is far greater.
structures used, in particular through 
an increasing supply from renew- Following the acquisition operations 
able sources, investment in energy  carried out by the Group, there was an 
efficiency projects and the use of IT  increase in energy consumption be-
tools which, where possible, have en- tween 2018 and 2019 due to the inclu-
ergy certifications.  sion of foreign offices (approx. 500,000 
KWH),  new  offices  (approx.  300,000 
The whole organisation has increased  KWH) and all the other locations in 
its commitment to the environment  which  the  accounting  is  not  direct 
by  working  on  the  various  aspects  and follows condominium/contractu-
related to the energy efficiency of  al logics (approx. 1,000,000 KWH). If 
buildings:  the values are considered on a like-
›  elements have been introduced in  for-like basis, a reduction in over-
maintenance  contracts  which  are  all site consumption of around 1% 
aimed  at  consumption  optimisa- would be recorded. Parameterizing 
tion and environmental diagnos- the  number  of  employees,  second-
tics; ed employees and associates in the 
›  already in 2018, the Bari office relo- Group’s buildings with respect to the 
cated to a new facility with high en- energy  consumption  and  total  GHG 
ergy performance (A1), leveraging  emissions, there is a decrease in the 
the sustainable use of energy sourc- energy intensity value equal to 11.28 
es specific to the Group’s operating  GJ per unit in 2019 (equal to 13.31 GJ 
context; per unit in 2018) and the value relating 
›  at the San Donato Milanese office,  to the GHG emission intensity is equal 
the windows were fitted with sun  to 0.95 tCO  per unit (equal to 1.06 
2
control films that optimise equip- tCO per unit in 2018). 
2 
ment performance, help reduce en-
ergy consumption and improve inte- For  further  details  regarding  direct 
rior comfort; and indirect consumption, GHG emis-
›  at the Mangone office, the replace- sion and energy intensity, please refer 
ment of the boiler with a more ef- to the related Annexes in the Appen-
ficient system contributed to a 4%  dix section.
energy saving.
›  Introduction  of  energy  consump-
tion detection systems of the CED 
(Data Processing Center) of Padua
39  The new Car Policy for 
2020 provides for the 
introduction of diesel 
vehicles with a maxi-
mum CO2 emission 
factor of 125 g/km and 
Full Hybrid and Mild 
Hybrid vehicles.
126