Use of resources and waste 
1
management 
Id
e
n
t
it
y
In line with its Environmental Policy, Cerved is committed to 
reducing the consumption of non-renewable materials or of high 
environmental impact, in particular through the containment 
of paper consumption through projects for document  2
dematerialisation and the reduction of the use of disposable food-
grade plastic that is not biodegradable within company offices. G
o
v
e
r
n
By  investing  in  dematerialisation  corporate events and green suppli- a
n
and digital technologies of the latest  ers. ce
generation, Cerved has in fact signif-
icantly reduced the use of paper. In  In this regard, communication plays 
this  sense,  the  Group’s  information  an important role with the display of 
3
database was also revised: the switch  “Anche NO!” posters in the refresh-
from  the  Oracle  operating  system  ment areas of the corporate offices 
to the Graph Neo4j platform (totally  and the definition of social cam-
P
e
transactional database integrated into  paigns (with dedicated landing page)  r
s
o
the applications) contributed to fur- which includes the programming of  n
e
ther savings in the use of paper mate- ad hoc editorial plans on the Group’s 
rials, guaranteeing more sustainable  channels, addressed externally, and 
business development. contents destined for the platform 
Workplace with the aim of keeping 
To sensitize the entire Group on  internal engagement high. 4
increasingly urgent green issues, we 
have also embarked on a wide-rang- New initiatives are planned for 2020-
C
ing path that starts from the reduc- 2021 which will put a greater focus on  o
n
tion of the use of disposable food- the issue of recycling up to the near  tin
u
grade plastic: a path oriented to the  total refusal of all that is not ecolog- it
y
sustainable growth of the national  ical.
economic system, and which seeks 
to induce people to gradually change  The Group has also designed a pro-
their daily behaviours in order to  ject that will be implemented in 2020 
5
waste and pollute less and less, be- called  the  “Transparent  collection 
coming responsible and careful con- project”.  Separate  waste  collection 
sumers. will no longer be in dark containers,  S
o
but in transparent containers that al- cie
t
The “Anche NO!” campaign seeks to  low seeing their contents and reduc- y
oppose all those irresponsible atti- ing human error.
tudes for our planet, and has been 
launched with several actions: bottle  For  the  disposal  and  toner  collec-
distribution to all employees, in- tion service available at all offices, the 
stallation of dispensers for the free  Group relies on the ONLUS Vestisoli- 6
distribution of microfiltered water,  dale cooperative, which is a non-profit 
replacement of plastic cups with  entity that provides personal, environ-
E
compostable ones, elimination of  mental and social services, focusing  nv
ir
plastic in canteens, up to the choice  on employment opportunities for dis- o
n
of locations with low environmen- advantaged individuals. m
e
n
tal impact for internal, external and  t
127