CERVED GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
Note on methodology 
This  document  is  the  third  consoli- which provides a summary of the in-
dated Non Financial Statement (also  dicators and related reference pages. 
“Statement” or “Sustainability Report”)  The “Appendix” represents an integral 
of  the  companies  belonging  to  the  part of this Report, showing detailed 
Group formed by Cerved Group S.p.A.  information and tables with quantita-
and its Subsidiaries (also “Cerved”, the  tive data for the purpose of providing 
“Cerved Group” or the “Group”) drawn  exhaustive evidence of how the topics 
up pursuant to Italian Legislative De- identified as material were addressed 
cree  no.  254/2016  and  subsequent  and of the respective GRI indicators. 
amendments and additions.  The choice of performance indicators 
took into account the materiality anal-
The  Sustainability  Report  2019  con- ysis, updated in 2019 and whose per-
tains information (formalised and im- formance methods are described in 
plemented policies, risks and related  the paragraph “Stakeholder engage-
management methods, management  ment and materiality matrix”. 
models and performance indicators) 
relating to environmental, social and  The information and data included in 
personnel-related issues, respect for  this document refer to the year 2019 
human  rights  and  the  fight  against  and  the  performance  trends,  where 
corruption, to an extent that ensures  available,  for  the  three-year  period 
a clear understanding of the activities  2017– 2019, in particular, for the in-
carried out, the progress, results and  dicators introduced for the first time 
impact produced by the Group. since  these  financial  statements,  it 
was not possible to reconstruct the 
This document has been drawn up  data relating to previous years, also in 
with the aim of providing a clear and  consideration of the evolution of the 
transparent  representation  of  the  Group structure. The qualitative and 
Group’s activities, its organisational  quantitative information derives from 
model,  the  main  risks  and  perfor- the corporate information systems of 
mance indicators on environmental,  the Group and from a non-financial re-
social and personnel-related issues,  porting system specifically implement-
respect  for  human  rights  and  the  ed to meet the requirements of the 
fight against bribery and corruption  GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 
that were deemed relevant, taking  and are representative of the various 
into  account  the  Group’s  activities  areas of the Decree, as well as consist-
and  characteristics  during  the  ref- ent with the activity carried out and 
erence year (1 January 2019 - 31 De- the impacts produced by the Cerved 
cember 2019). Group. For each material topic, when 
present,  a  corporate  management 
This Statement was prepared in ac- and organisation model was reported 
cordance  with  the  GRI  Standards  along with the relative policies (includ-
“Core” option, published in 2016 by  ing those of due diligence), the results 
the Global Reporting Initiative, an au- achieved  through  them  and  some 
thoritative  independent  body  dedi- non-financial performance indicators.
cated to the definition of models for 
non-financial  reporting.  The  disclo- REPORTING BOUNDARY
sure  and  indicators  within  the  text 
are reported in the GRI Content Index,  The boundary of the economic and 
150