CERVED GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
◗ Marketing Solutions  and studies&analysis. These informa-
tion sources are disseminated free of 
The  Marketing  Solutions  line  has  a  charge by the Cerved Group to pro-
wide and in-depth range of services  mote the sustainable development of 
available online, in real time, and of  the company with positive impacts on 
customised  digital  marketing  and  the community, thus promoting:
lead  generation  design  solutions 
allowing it to define highly effective  ›  market transparency;
business  strategies  and  make  the  ›  knowledge development;
business grow.  ›  promotion of innovation at national 
level.
In addition to its three main divisions, 
the Group leverages on the compa- OUR DISTINCTIVE FEATURES
ny’s huge wealth of information and, 
through  its  Research  Department  The Cerved Group’s databases offer 
Cerved Know 
(Ufficio  Studi),  provides  analyses  a wealth of information unique in 
information 
and  research  that  make  it  possible  Italy in terms of quality, complete-
& report 
to interpret the performance of the  ness and historical depth. A depth 
available 
Italian  entrepreneurial  fabric.  These  that shows the trend of events over 
for free
studies,  which  combine  rigorous  time and tells the stories of business-
analyses  with  a  readily  understand- es, groups and individuals. The Cerved 
able language, are available free of  Group has an advanced technologi-
charge on the know.cerved.com por- cal structure with sophisticated elec-
tal, where newsletters are also avail- tronic  systems  developed  internally 
able focusing on various issues and  for the automated processing of data. 
economic  legislative  updates.  The  This structure makes it possible to ex-
topics are contained in the following  tract information very quickly and 
sections: companies&markets, loans,  process data efficiently and accurate-
data  innovation,  tool&educational  ly, also thanks to advanced algorithms.
Our distinctive features
   ›  The largest data ecosystem in Italy, designed to be 
DATA  integrated with that of our partners and customers 
1
ECOSYSTEM ›  Rich, unique, distinctive and constantly developing 
wealth of information
›  The most innovative and advanced technologies for 
2 LEADING-EDGE  data management, processing and visualisation
TECHNOLOGIES ›  Machine Learning, Advanced Analytics and Semantic 
Engines for transforming data into high value solutions
›  Ready-to-use Apps that do not require system 
APP
3 integration (IT Independent)
VALUE BASED
›  App Cerved for generating value
After all the collected data have been  analytically.  The  data  matching  and 
checked  and  corrected,  they  are  verification  processes  significantly 
managed in a centralised database  increase the information power of 
where  they  are  reprocessed,  both  Cerved’s archives. This makes it pos-
automatically  using  sophisticated  sible to respond to specific customer 
matching and verification algorithms  needs and provide increasingly accu-
and manually by qualified operators,  rate assessments of the financial sus-
who analyse the information extract- tainability and risk profiles of current 
ed from the system and reprocess it  and potential counterparties.
16