   
Accountants, which are based on the fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, competence and  In particular, we held meetings and interviews with the management of Cerved Group SpA and 
professional diligence, confidentiality and professional behaviour. Our audit firm adopts International  with the personnel of Cerved Credit Management Group Srl and Cerved Rating Agency SpA 
Standard on Quality Control 1 (ISQC Italy 1) and, accordingly, maintains an overall quality control  and we performed limited analysis of documentary evidence, to gather information about the 
system which includes processes and procedures for compliance with ethical and professional  processes and procedures for the collection, consolidation, processing and submission of the 
principles and with applicable laws and regulations.  non-financial information to the function responsible for the preparation of the NFS. 
  Moreover, for material information, considering the activities and characteristics of the Group: 
   
Auditor’s responsibilities  -  at holding level, 
   
We are responsible for expressing a conclusion, on the basis of the work performed, regarding the  a)  with reference to the qualitative information included in the NFS, and in 
compliance of the NFS with the Decree and with the GRI Standards. We conducted our engagement in  particular to the business model, the policies adopted and the main risks, we 
accordance with “International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised) –  carried out interviews and acquired supporting documentation to verify their 
Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”  consistency with available evidence; 
(hereafter “ISAE 3000 Revised”), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards  b)  with reference to quantitative information, we performed analytical 
Board (IAASB) for limited assurance engagements. The standard requires that we plan and apply  procedures as well as limited tests, in order to assess, on a sample basis, the 
procedures in order to obtain limited assurance that the NFS is free of material misstatement. The  accuracy of consolidation of the information; 
procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement are less in scope than those performed in a   
reasonable assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 Revised (“reasonable assurance  -  for Cerved Group SpA, Cerved Credit Management Group Srl and Cerved Rating 
engagement”) and, therefore, do not provide us with a sufficient level of assurance that we have  Agency SpA, which were selected on the basis of their activities and their contribution 
become aware of all significant facts and circumstances that might be identified in a reasonable  to the performance indicators at a consolidated level, we carried out meetings with the 
assurance engagement.  management and gathered supporting documentation regarding the correct 
  application of the procedures and calculation methods used for the key performance 
The procedures performed on the NFS were based on our professional judgement and consisted in  indicators. 
interviews, primarily with company personnel responsible for the preparation of the information   
presented in the NFS, analysis of documents, recalculations and other procedures designed to obtain   
evidence considered useful.  Conclusions 
   
In particular, we performed the following procedures:  Based on the work performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the NFS 
  of Cerved Group as of 31 December 2019 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in compliance 
1.  analysis of the relevant matters reported in the NFS relating to the activities and  with articles 3 and 4 of the Decree and with the GRI Standards. 
characteristics of the Group, in order to assess the reasonableness of the selection process   
used, in accordance with article 3 of the Decree and with the reporting standards adopted;   
2.  analysis and assessment of the criteria used to identify the consolidation area, in order to  Milan, 23 April 2020 
assess their compliance with the Decree;   
3.  comparison of the financial information reported in the NFS with that reported in Cerved  PricewaterhouseCoopers SpA 
Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements;   
Signed by               Signed by  
4.  understanding of the following matters: 
 
−  business and organisational model of the Group, with reference to the management of  Andrea Martinelli  Paolo Bersani 
the matters specified by article 3 of the Decree;  (Partner)  (Authorised signatory) 
−  policies adopted by the Group with reference to the matters specified in article 3 of the   
Decree, actual results and related key performance indicators;   
 
−  main risks, generated and/or faced by the Group, with reference to the matters 
This report has been translated from the Italian original solely for the convenience of international 
specified in article 3 of the Decree. 
readers. We have not performed any controls on the NFS 2019 translation. 
 
5.  With reference to those matters, we compared the information obtained with the information 
presented in the NFS and carried out the procedures described under point 5 a) below; 
6.  understanding of the processes underlying the preparation, collection and management of the 
significant qualitative and quantitative information included in the NFS. 
 
2 of 3  3 of 3 
   