Purpose and principles 
1
Id
e
n
t
it
y
The Group’s corporate Purpose and key mission is to “help 
the national economic system protect itself from risk and 
sustainably grow”. This mission is achieved by “putting data, 
technologies and talent at the service of people, businesses,  2
banks and institutions”. 
G
o
The Purpose stems from the true need  thus increasing synergy and coopera- ve
r
to support technological innovation  tion levels and boosting the culture of  na
n
by  relaunching  Italian  productivi- sustainability. c
e
ty  with  data-driven  innovation,  a  Cerved operates in the belief that sus-
crucial tool for reversing the normal  tainability  drives  a  process  of  con-
trends of economic stagnation while  tinuous  improvement;  a  process 
ensuring sustainable growth with pos- that  guarantees  long-term  results,  3
itive impacts on the community. strengthens  economic  performance, 
These impacts consist of: reputation  and  workers’  health  and 
P
›  educating  and  disseminating  fi- safety, and allows environmental and  eo
p
nancial culture; social goals to be achieved. Fair, trans- le
›  supporting  the  legislative  and  parent and responsible behaviour 
economic decisions of the Italian  increases credibility and consensus, 
economic system; protecting them over time. They are 
›  improving the financial integrity  at the basis of a sustainable business 
and  transparency  of  the  nation- development that seeks to create and 
4
al  banking  and  economic  system,  protect value for all its stakeholders.
increasing awareness of the struc- To pursue the Purpose and create syn-
ture and dynamics of the markets  ergies with all stakeholders, whether  C
o
n
in which companies operate and en- internal  or  external,  the  Group  has  t
in
couraging loan disbursement. aligned its ideals and merged guide- u
it
y
Aware  of  its  important  social  role,  lines, ideas, tools and tangible busi-
Cerved has undertaken a journey to  ness elements into four principles:
extensively incorporate sustainability  1      P  IONEERS OF THE BIG DATA ECO-
principles  and  actions  into  its  busi- SYSTEM. We wish to extract the 
5
ness  strategy  and  daily  activities.  It  potential from data and constantly 
strives to strengthen its commitment  evolving technologies to accompa-
to spreading the concept of sustain- ny people, companies and institu-
S
o
ability and of the creation of shared  tions along their journey towards  c
ie
value in all corporate departments,  growth and risk protection; ty
Our principles
 PIONEERS OF  COMMITTED TO 
6
1 3
THE BIG DATA  BUILDING A CULTURE 
ECOSYSTEM OF TRUST
E
n
v
ir
GEARED TOWARDS  LEADERS  on
2 4 m
SUSTAINABLE  IN CHANGE e
n
t
GROWTH
21