CERVED GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
2      G  EARED TOWARDS SUSTAINABLE  merge together, where everyone 
GROWTH. We believe in the trans- can and must give their contribu-
parency of the economic system  tion, where diversity is a value and 
as an engine for development. We  where merit is recognised;
are determined to achieve perfor- 4      L EADERS IN CHANGE. We all, each 
mance  by  acting  responsibly  to- one  of  us,  encourage  entrepre-
wards our stakeholders, commu- neurial  dynamism  and  personal 
nities and the environment; development  with  speed,  enthu-
3      C  OMMITTED TO BUILDING A CUL- siasm and courage. We shape the 
TURE OF TRUST. We believe in a  company through our approach to 
working  environment  based  on  change.
trust, where knowledge and skills 
Stakeholder engagement and 
materiality matrix
It is with regard to its stakeholders, i.e., those who influence and/
or are influenced by the entity’s activities, that Cerved defines the 
set of values and conduct guidelines that must be followed by all 
those who operate for the Group. 
The  engagement  process  includes  of each topic. 
identifying all material topics i.e. those 
aspects  that  may  generate  signif- The  2019  stakeholder  engagement 
icant  economic,  social  and  envi- process involved new stakeholder cat-
ronmental impacts on the Group’s  egories:
activities, influencing stakeholders’ ex- ›  Suppliers,  agents  and  lawyers 
pectations, decisions and actions. dealing with the credit collection ac-
The  stakeholder  map  includes  tivities provided by the Credit Man-
Cerved’s main stakeholders, identified  agement division;
according  to  specific  business  fea- ›  Prospect  Clients  who  during  the 
tures, the market and the intensity of  Cerved  Next  event  had  confirmed 
their relationship with the Group. their availability to take part in the 
engagement;
In 2017 Cerved started a process for  ›  University Partners;
identifying all aspects that could sig- ›  Updating of the Executive Manage-
nificantly  influence  stakeholders’  ment Committee assessments.
assessments  and  decisions.  During  The assessments of these new catego-
the reporting year, a questionnaire  ries were added to the results of the 
aimed at understanding the percep- 2018 activities involving:
tion of Cerved’s business was submit- ›  1,057 employees
ted to certain categories of stakehold- ›  7 major investors
ers. The recipients assigned a score  ›  > 10 Executive team members
ranging from 1 to 5 (where 1 means  ›  ~100 Real Estate expert
that the topic is not relevant and 5  ›  420 customers
highly relevant) to the Group’s materi- ›  10 Facility Management providers
al topics. A brief description was given 
22