CERVED GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
Sustainability strategy and 
Sustainability plan
Cerved Group’s ambitious aim is to maintain leadership in its 
sector and continue to generate shared value for itself and its 
stakeholders. 
To achieve this aim, in 2019 Cerved  priorities assigned on the basis of rel-
undertook  a  journey  to  extensive- evance to stakeholders and risk anal-
ly  incorporate  sustainability  prin- ysis. Special attention will be given to 
ciples  and  actions  into  its  busi- developing solutions that help busi-
ness  strategy  and  daily  activities.  nesses  make  responsible  choices 
Specifically,  Cerved  made  its  social  and so contributing to the sustainable 
role firmly take shape in its new  growth of the Italian economic system.
Purpose and started a process to give  In order to successfully implement its 
it full effect by defining principles,  strategy, Cerved believes that it is es-
actions and medium and long-term  sential to connect the clear responsi-
goals able to steer its business. The  bilities assigned to people and struc-
areas in which Cerved’s sustainabili- tures with the actions it has identified, 
ty strategy is being developed will be  and to implement an impact moni-
identified by: toring system created with specific 
›  listening to its main stakeholders  ESG KPIs. Finally, management’s goals 
and the people who make up Cerved; will be aligned with the company’s im-
›  analysing  the  ESG  main  mac- pact goals by acting on the incentive 
ro-trends and integrating the Sus- systems at various levels.
tainable Development Goals (SDGs)
›  implementing the recommenda- Cerved  analysed  its  contribution  to 
tions of the Control, Risk and Sus- the achievement of the UN-SDGs and 
tainability Committee.   identified the 9 UN-SDGs in which it 
is likely to provide a significant in-
Since Cerved is a public company, in- put (see "Scope of Action" table in 
vestors play a key role among stake- the following page). 
holders: as early as 2019, all the in-
structions received from the leading  The actions relating to the various 
sustainability rating agencies and the  material topics identified through 
topics  that  emerged  during  discus- the materiality matrix were grouped 
sions with institutional investors were  into six specific topics and associ-
assessed.  ated with each of the 9 UN-SDGs 
The work started in 2019 and led to  previously identified. This ensured 
an initial identification of short-term  greater consistency with business 
goals and actions which were already  organisation, with the responsibilities 
achieved in the first months of the  assigned and with the structure of the 
year.  content set out in this Sustainability 
In the course of 2020, the areas iden- Report (see the "Three-Year sustaina-
tified  will  be  broken  down  into  an  bility plan" in the following pages).
organic plan of specific actions, with 
30