Corporate Governance and 
1
organisational structure
Id
e
n
t
it
y
Cerved’s Corporate Governance struc- ternal Auditing Function that is in 
ture is based on the traditional admin- charge of checking that the internal 
istration and control model referred  control and risk management sys-
to in articles 2380-bis et seq. of the  tem  is  adequate  and  functioning 
2
Italian Civil Code, according to which,  as  prescribed.  Lastly,  the  Group’s 
without prejudice to the mandatory  administration and control model is 
powers of the Shareholders’ Meeting: completed with the activities of the  G
o
›  the Board of Directors is exclusive- Supervisory  Body,  established  fol- ve
r
n
ly  responsible  for  the  Company’s  lowing the adoption of the Organisa- a
n
administrative  and  strategic  man- tion, Management and Control Model  ce
agement in pursuit of the corporate  pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 
purpose; no. 231/2001.
›  the  Board  of  Statutory  Auditors 
3
is  responsible  for  supervising  ob- The Company complies with the Cor-
servance of the law and the Articles  porate Governance Code. In 2019, it 
of Association, compliance with the  referred to the July 2018 version of the 
P
e
principles  of  good  administration  Corporate Governance Code, available  o
p
and, especially, the adequacy of the  on the Borsa Italiana website at http:// le
Company’s organisational, adminis- www.borsaitaliana.it/comitato-corpo-
trative and accounting structure; rate-governance/codice/codice.htm.
›  the legal auditing of the Group’s ac- As  of  31  December  2019,  Cerved’s 
counts is entrusted to Independent  subscribed  and  paid-in  share  capi-
Auditors entered in the official reg- tal amounted to Euro 50,521,142.00,  4
ister. represented by 195,274,979 ordinary 
shares  with  no  par  value  and  with 
C
The Board of Directors performs its  voting  rights.  The  Company  holds  o
n
activities directly and collectively, as  3,420,275 treasury shares.  tin
u
well as by delegating part of its duties  it
y
to the Chairman and the Chief Exec- For further information about Govern-
utive Officer, as permitted by the law  ance, Compliance and risk manage-
and the Articles of Association. ment issues, please view the following 
documents available on the company 
5
The Board of Directors also includes: website in the “Investor Relations & 
›  the  Remuneration  and  Nomina- ESG” section: Organisation, Manage-
tions Committee; ment and Control Model pursuant to  S
o
›  the Related Parties Committee; Italian  Legislative  Decree  231/2001;  cie
t
›  the Control, Risk and Sustainabili- Code of Ethics; Report on corporate  y
ty Committee. governance and ownership structure; 
Procedure for the use and manage-
In accordance with the provisions of  ment  of the whistleblowing system; 
the  Corporate  Governance  Code  of  Sustainability Policy; Articles of Asso-
Borsa  Italiana5,  Cerved’s  Corporate  ciation. 5  The Corporate Gover- 6
nance Code for listed 
Governance  model  includes  an  In- companies approved 
by the Corporate Go-
vernance Committee  E
and promoted by Borsa  n
v
Italiana, ABI, Ania,  ir
o
Assogestioni, Assonime  n
and Confindustria, ac- m
cessible to the public on  e
n
Borsa Italiana website  t
(www.borsaitaliana.it).
37