CERVED GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
For  the  sixth  consecutive  year,  the  case an executive director and with a 
Board of Directors promoted an an- view to best governance, the Board of 
nual self-assessment process, in line  Directors  appointed  Fabio  Cerchiai 
with international best practices and  as Lead Independent Director on 19 
with the provisions of the Corporate  April 2019.
Governance Code. The process con- The  Lead  Independent  Director  is 
sisted  of  the  individual  completion  tasked  with  cooperating  with  the 
by the directors of specific question- Chairman of the Board of Directors 
naires.  The  self-assessment  process  to ensure that the directors receive 
is repeated and discussed on a year- complete  and  timely  information 
ly  basis  by  the  Board  of  Directors.  flows, and is authorised to convene, 
It covers the adequacy of the size,  independently  or  at  the  request  of 
composition and operating proce- other directors, special meetings only 
dures of the Board of Directors and  for independent or non-executive Di-
of its internal committees, as well as  rectors, to discuss issues deemed of 
the professional characteristics, man- interest for the running of the Board 
agerial experience and seniority of the  of Directors or for company manage-
individual professionals who serve on  ment.
the Board of Directors.
The self-assessment showed positive  INDUCTION PROGRAMME
findings  as  regards  the  operation, 
size and composition of the Board of  Two sessions of the annual Induction 
Directors and its committees. Specifi- Programme were held on 27 May 2019 
cally, it emerged, among other things,  and 19 September 2019. The sessions 
that: aimed  at  providing  directors  and 
›   the number of directors on the Board  statutory auditors with in-depth in-
is considered the most appropriate;  formation about the organisation, 
›   the size and diversity of background  performance  and  development  of 
and  experience  have  enabled  the  the Group’s main operating areas - its 
Board  of  Directors  to  operate  ef- positioning with respect to its main 
fectively in a complex context char- competitors, the product portfolio it 
acterised by extraordinary transac- offers and its possible development 
tions and situations;  on issues linked to the relationship 
›   the dynamics within the Board are  between the Group and its investors. 
effective and the atmosphere during 
meetings  has  remained  open  and  These sessions were conducted with 
highly cooperative, ensuring a high  the support of the Group’s top man-
quality of debate, focused on prior- agement  and  of  consultants,  repre-
ity and urgent matters; senting both business and corporate 
›   the work of the Committees has once  functions.
again been in line with best practic-
es and successfully integrated in the  TOP MANAGEMENT SUCCESSION 
Board’s resolution process. PLANNING
LEAD INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR In  2019,  the  Board  of  Directors 
launched a Succession Planning pro-
Article 2.C.4., of the Corporate Govern- cess through the Remuneration and 
ance Code recommends the appoint- Nominations  Committee.  The  pro-
ment of a Lead Independent Director,  cess focused on the first reports of 
inter alia, if the Chairman of the Board  the Chief Executive Officer and was 
of Directors is the Chief Executive Of- designed to safeguard business man-
ficer. Having said this, although the  agement stability, reduce prospec-
conditions for the appointment of the  tive risks associated with the lack of 
Lead Independent Director were not  managerial continuity in top manage-
met, considering that the Chairman  ment  positions,  and  avoid  possible 
of the Board of Directors was in any  impact, including reputational impact, 
42