on  the  Company.  In  particular,  the  suitability of the Company’s organ-
process was divided into 3 phases:  isational structure within its scope, 
1
›  in-depth interviews with the first  of the internal control system and 
reports on their perception of the  the administrative and accounting 
role held and of organisational de- system, as well as the reliability of the  Id
e
velopment, in order to identify po- latter to correctly represent the man- n
t
it
tential successors and highlight risk  agement situation; the procedures for  y
levels; actually implementing the corporate 
›  analysis  of  potential  successors  governance rules laid down in codes 
based on three classifications: back- of  conduct  which  the  Company,  in 
up candidate, successor at 12 - 24  public disclosures, declares to comply 
months,  next  generation  at  36-60  with; the effectiveness of the internal  2
months; audit and risk management system, 
›  creation of a so-called “Succession  the auditing of the accounts, and the 
G
Mapping”. external  auditor’s  independence.  o
v
This  allowed  a  virtuous  process  to  The entire Board of Statutory Auditors  er
n
be built that guarantees stability and  is regularly invited to the meetings of  an
c
business continuity. the Remuneration and Nominations  e
Committee, the Control, Risk and Sus-
BOARD OF STATUTORY AUDITORS  tainability Committee and the Related 
Parties Committee.
3
The Board of Statutory Auditors has  During 2019, the Board of Statutory 
the duty of monitoring observance  Auditors - composed of 67% female 
of the law and Articles of Associa- statutory auditors - met 7 times. The  P
e
tion, as well as compliance with the  meetings lasted on average 2.5 hours.    op
le
principles  of  sound  administration; 
Board of Statutory Auditors  4
Age range as at 
Gender Independence Role
31 Dec 2019 C
o
n
Antonella Bientinesi (E)  Woman   > 50   x   Chairman  tin
u
 Statutory  ity
Costanza Bonelli (E)  Woman  > 50   x 
Auditor 
 Statutory 
Paolo Ludovici (E)  Man  > 50   x 
Auditor 
(E): Financial Expert
5
S
o
c
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The powers and operating procedures  ie
t
y
of the corporate bodies are governed 
The Independent Auditors who  by the law, the Articles of Association 
perform the legal auditing of the  and,  as  regards  the  Shareholders’ 
accounts are appointed in accordance  Meeting and the committees set up 
with the Articles of Association by the  within  the  Board  of  Directors,  also 
Shareholders’ Meeting upon proposal  by the relevant regulations adopted  6
of the Board of Statutory Auditors.  by the Company. Cerved Group does 
The external auditor performs  not fall within the definition of SMEs 
E
n
its activities independently and  pursuant to art. 1, paragraph 1, letter  v
ir
autonomously and does not  w-quater.1) of the Consolidated Law  on
m
represent, therefore, the majority or  on Finance and art. 2-ter of the Issuers’  e
n
minority shareholders. Regulations. t
43