CERVED GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
◗ Responsible marketing policy - ap- Management Group that use the IT 
proved by the Board of Directors on  services  provided  by  Cerved  Group 
13 March 2020, it sets out the guiding  S.p.A..
principles on the approach that should  The Group also prepared an activity 
be taken when carrying out marketing  plan to obtain the following certifica-
activities for all the people in all the  tions by 2020:
countries where Cerved operates:
›  Information  Security  Management 
›  Prudency and Accuracy; System  (ISO  27001):  achieved  by 
›  Reliability and Truth; SpazioDati in January 2020 and pro-
›  Honesty and Transparency; ject launched for Major 1 srl;
›  Respect  for  Privacy  and  personal  ›  Business Continuity management 
data protection; system and achievement of relevant 
›  Ethical Conduct; certification in accordance with ISO 
›  Social Responsibility. 22301 standard;
›  Anticorruption management and 
◗  Anti-Money  Laundering  Policy  -  prevention  system  and  achieve-
approved by the Board of Directors  ment of relevant certification in ac-
on 13 March 2020, it sets out a clear  cordance with ISO 37001. 
and broader approach than the one 
provided for by legislation. The policy  Cerved  Rating  Agency  S.p.A.  is  reg-
deals with the monitoring and man- istered as a European rating agency 
agement of money-laundering risks,  pursuant to Regulation EC 1060/2009 
also confirming the Group’s commit- and is subject to supervision by ESMA 
ment to pursue investment in training  (European Securities and Markets Au-
and socially responsible management; thority). In addition, it is recognised 
as an External Credit Assessment In-
◗  Policy  on  the  diversity  of  the  stitution (ECAI) under EU Regulation 
members of corporate bodies - ap- 575/2013 of the Parliament and Coun-
proved by the Board of Directors on 5  cil of the European Union and as a Rat-
March 2019, it reinforces the principle  ing Tool by the ECB (European Central 
according to which the Group recog- Bank)  under  the  Eurosystem  Credit 
nises the importance of a balanced  Assessment Framework (ECAF).
diversity and heterogeneity in the 
composition  of  Cerved’s  corporate  Cerved Credit Management S.p.A. re-
bodies. ceived RSS1 and CSS1 ratings5 from 
Fitch Ratings as:
CERTIFICATIONS AND LICENCES
›  Italian Residential;
Cerved  Group  S.p.A.,  Cerved  Rating  ›  Commercial Mortgage Special Ser-
Agency S.p.A., Cerved Credit Collection  vicer.
S.p.A.,  Recollection  srl,  and  Cerved 
Property Services S.A. (also ISO 14001  Cerved Group companies own the li-
certified)  maintained  ISO  9001:2015  censes required by articles 134 TULPS 
Certification, an international refer- (Consolidated Law on Public Security) 
ence  standard  for  Quality  Manage- for  activities  regarding  the  dissem-
ment Systems.  ination  of  commercial  information 
In  July  2019,  Cerved  Group  S.p.A.  and 115 TULPS for performing out-
achieved ISO 27001:2017 (Information  of-court debt collection activities on 
Security  Management  System)  certi- behalf of third parties. Cerved Master 
5 R SS1 and CSS1 are 
fication;  Cerved  Credit  Management  Services S.p.A. has been enrolled in 
Ratings, specific to the 
sector, that certify the  Group had obtained this certification  the Register pursuant to art. 106 of 
quality of the business, 
referring particularly  in  November  2018.  These  certifica- T.U.B. (Register of Financial Interme-
to the wide range of 
tions also apply to the companies of  diaries - Consolidated Law on Bank-
management strategies, 
the soundness of the  the Cerved Group and Cerved Credit  ing) since 12 March 2018.
technological solutions 
and prudent risk mana-
gement.
48