Ethics, Integrity and Anticorruption
1
Id
e
n
t
it
y
CODE OF ETHICS Values and principles of the Group’s 
Code of Ethics:
In the conduct of its activities, Cerved  ›  Compliance with rules and proce-
is guided by its Code of Ethics, a doc- dures; 
2
ument  that  sets  forth  the  Group’s  ›  Fairness and professionalism; 
commitments and responsibilities,  ›  Confidentiality  of  information, 
including those of a social, environ- data and information security, and  G
o
v
mental and governance nature. It  Privacy protection;  e
r
n
also provides the guidelines of con- ›  Transparency of management;  a
n
duct which must be taken by corpo- ›  Fair competition;  ce
rate body members and by all em- ›  Workers’ Health and Safety; 
ployees of Cerved Group’s companies  ›  Environmental protection; 
and, in general, by all persons oper- ›  Prevention of conflicts of interest; 
ating for these companies, whatever  ›  Protection of intellectual proper- 3
their relationship with the Group. The  ty; 
principles embodied in the document  ›  Fight against corruption and fraud;
P
e
are revised periodically. In 2019, they  ›  Social responsibility; o
p
were updated by adding principles  ›  Credit  management  and  protec- le
concerning the use of Artificial In- tion;
telligence solutions and details on  ›  Use of artificial intelligence sys-
the management of relations with  tems.
trade unions. As specified in the doc-
ument, the Group does not make di- No cases of violation of the Code of  4
rect or indirect contributions, in any  Ethics were reported during 2019.
form  whatsoever,  to  parties,  move-
C
ments,  committees,  associations  or  ORGANISATION, MANAGEMENT  o
n
other political or union bodies, nor to  AND CONTROL MODEL PURSUANT  tin
u
their  representatives  or  candidates,  TO ITALIAN LEGISLATIVE DECREE  it
y
nor to organisations with which a con- 231/01
flict of interest may arise. 
The Cerved Group gives key value to  The  Board  of  Directors  of  Cerved 
the observance of all laws and regu- Group S.p.A. resolved to adopt an Or-
5
lations that govern life and economic  ganisation, Management and Control 
and social activities. It draws constant  Model (“Model”), pursuant to Italian 
inspiration from principles of loyalty  Legislative Decree no. 231 of 8 June  S
o
and fairness, reliability and trans- 2001 “Regulations governing the ad- cie
t
parency,  respect  towards  people,  ministrative liability of legal persons,  y
organisations, institutions and the en- companies and associations, including 
vironment.  those without legal status”. The Model 
and the principles set out in it are in-
All Italian and foreign Cerved Group  tended for the members of Corporate 
companies have adopted the Group’s  Bodies, all Employees and, more gen- 6
Code of Ethics, through a specific res- erally, all parties working for Cerved 
olution of the Board of Directors. The  Group S.p.A. and any other natural 
E
Code  has  also  been  translated  into  or legal person with whom or which  n
v
ir
English, Greek and Romanian so that  Cerved Group S.p.A. comes into con- o
n
it can be fully understood also by the  tact in conducting its business. New- m
e
n
staff of the Group’s foreign offices.  ly acquired Companies of the Cerved  t
49