CERVED GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
Group gradually adopt an Organisa- testimony to the judicial authorities;
tion, Management and Control Model. ›  crimes  involving  copyright  viola-
Cerved’s Model 231 is composed of: tions;
›  a  general  section,  the  purpose  of  ›  negligent manslaughter and negli-
which  is  to  explain  the  ration- gent serious and very serious injury 
ale  of  Italian  Legislative  Decree  caused by violation of accident pre-
231/2001, the key points of the Su- vention and occupational health and 
pervisory Body’s regulations and the  safety regulations;
main protocols making up the Issu- ›  environmental crimes;
er’s Model 231; ›  employment  of  illegally  staying 
›  a  number  of  special  sections,  the  third-country nationals; 
purpose of which is to identify the  ›  transnational crimes.
crimes that could potentially oc- In 2019, Cerved Group S.p.A. - with 
cur within the Company and the rel- the support of an external consultant 
evant sensitive activities, to illustrate  expert in 231/2001 issues - conducted 
the ways in which unlawful con- an audit to check the consistency 
duct could possibly occur and to  between Cerved Group S.p.A.’s Mod-
list the behavioural rules that should  el  231  and  the  document  “Consoli-
be complied with and the preven- dated  principles  for  the  drafting  of 
tion measures that should be imple- organisational  models  and  the  role 
mented. of the supervisory body and possible 
The general section of the Model 231  re-examination  of  Italian  Legislative 
is available on the Company’s website  Decree no. 231 of 8 June 2001” issued 
in Italian and English in the “Investor  by the National Council of Chartered 
Relations & ESG” section. Accountants and Accounting Experts 
The Model 231 comprises the follow- and drawn up by the Multidisciplinary 
ing documents, which are an integral  Working  Group  (CNDCEC,  National 
and  substantial  part  thereof:  i)  the  Lawyers’ Council and main trade asso-
Code of Ethics of the Cerved Group;  ciations - ABI and Confindustria). 
ii)  the  disciplinary  system;  iii)  the  The  analysis  showed  that  “[...]  the 
findings of the risk assessment; iv)  Organisation, Management and Con-
the list of offences. trol Model adopted by Cerved Group 
The types of crimes that the Model  S.p.A. is well-structured and has been 
231 aims to prevent, based on the out- drawn up consistently with the pro-
come of the risk mapping process car- visions of the document “Consolidated 
ried out by the Issuer for Model adop- principles for the drafting of organisa-
tion purposes, include the following: tional models and the role of the su-
›  crimes committed in dealings with  pervisory body and possible re-exami-
the Public Administration; nation of Italian Legislative Decree no. 
›  computer crimes and unlawful pro- 231 of 8 June 2001 [...]”. In considera-
cessing of data; tion of the results of this analysis, and 
›  offences involving organised crime; of how the Models 231 of the Group 
›  corporate crimes, including bribery  Companies are structured, the opin-
among private individuals; ion of consistency was subsequent-
›  counterfeiting  of  money,  credit  ly extended to the Models 231 of all 
cards, revenue stamps and identifi- Group Companies.
cation instruments or marks; Furthermore,  in  line  with  the  doc-
›  crimes  against  industry  and  com- ument  “Consolidated  principles  for 
merce; the drafting of organisational models 
›  market abuse crimes; and the role of the supervisory body 
›  receiving stolen property, money  and possible re-examination of Italian 
laundering and recycling of assets  Legislative Decree no. 231 of 8 June 
obtained  through  crime,  including  2001”, Cerved defined a methodolog-
self money laundering;  ical framework for the assessment of 
›  inducement  to  refrain  from  pro- potential risks pursuant to Italian Leg-
viding testimony or providing false  islative Decree no. 231/2001.
52