SUPERVISORY BODY cial  Sections  of  the  Model  231  6  Information is available 
in the specific Model 
(specifically,  Special  Section  A  and 
231 section of Cerved's  1
The Supervisory Body (SB) of Cerved  Special Section C). website.
Group  S.p.A.  was  appointed  by  the  The Company and the Group updat-
Board of Directors and has the task of  ed both the Model 231/2001 and the  Id
e
supervising the Model’s functioning  Code  of  Ethics,  adjusting  the  docu- n
t
it
and compliance. The Cerved Group  ments when necessary (e.g. as a re- y
S.p.A.’s SB has multi-person compo- sult of new crimes and/or significant 
sition, made up of three members,  organisational changes)6. Training on 
who hold office until the approval of  the principles of the Code of Ethics 
the draft  financial statements  as  at  and on anticorruption issues is deliv-
31/12/2020: ered through an Awareness Training  2
process which the Group uses to raise 
›  Andrea Polizzi - Chairman; awareness  and  check  awareness/
G
›  Orazio Mardente; accountability in this area, as well as  o
v
›  Emiliano Nitti. with regard to other topics. er
n
Corruption is checked by analysing  an
c
Cerved’s Supervisory Body meets on  and monitoring information flows  e
a quarterly basis to analyse the peri- which are brought to the attention of 
odic  information  flows  prepared  by  the Supervisory Body on a quarterly 
the company and to carry out the anal- basis. These checks can be numerical-
3
yses required by the Monitoring Plan  ly identified for each Group company. 
defined annually by the Supervisory  On the basis of the checks by the SBs 
Body itself. In addition, Cerved’s SB  pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree  P
e
reports to the Control, Risk and Sus- 231/2001, in line with previous years,  op
le
tainability Committee and the Cerved  no cases of corruption were detect-
Board of Directors every six months. ed in 2019, nor were there any legal 
Cerved’s SB met 6 times in 2019; each  actions  regarding  anti-competitive 
meeting lasted on average about 2  behaviour and violations of anti-fraud 
hours. and monopolistic legislation.
4
FIGHT AGAINST FRAUD, BRIBERY  No specific Anticorruption Policy has 
AND CORRUPTION been formally established to date and 
C
with reference to 2019. It is however  o
n
t
The documents formally adopted that  included  among  the  achievements  in
u
provide principles and rules on cor- of  the  broader  project  concerning  it
y
ruption prevention are: the  implementation  of  a  corruption 
›  The Group’s Code of Ethics; risk management/prevention system 
›  The General Section and the Spe- planned for the coming years.
5
S
o
c
Group companies analysed for corruption-related risks ie
t
y
u.m. 20187 20198
Total number of Group companies analysed for corruption-related risks 9 no. 10 15
Total number of Group companies  no. 16 23
Percentage of Group companies analysed for corruption-related risks % 63% 65%
6
7  In 2018 the following companies adopted the Model 231: Cerved  Agency, ProWeb, SpazioDati, Cerved FinLine, Major 1, Cerved Credit 
Information Solutions, Cerved Group, Consit, ClickADV, Cerved Rating  Management Group, Cerved Credit Management, Cerved Legal Services,  E
Agency, Cerved Credit Management Group, Cerved Credit Management,  Cerved Credit Collection, Credit Management, Quaestio Cerved Credit  nv
Cerved Legal Services, Cerved Credit Collection and Credit Management.  Management, Juliet and Cerved Master Services. ir
o
It should be noted that Cerved Information Solutions, Cerved Group and  9  Data calculated using as reference, alternatively, the execution of the  n
Consit, which were merged in 2018, had in any case been analysed (so  Risk Assessment activities leading to the preparation and adoption of the  m
all of them were considered). Model 231 or the date of adoption of the Model 231 (in addition to the  en
8  In 2019 the following companies adopted the Model 231 (or had com- subsequent verification activities carried out by the SB). t
pleted Risk Assessment activities): Cerved Group, ClickADV, Cerved Rating 
53