Risk management
1
Id
e
n
t
it
y
The  Internal  Control  and  Risk  Man- frames  for  implementing  any  im-
agement System of the Cerved Group  provement actions. 
consists of a set of rules, procedures  In  the  course  of  2019,  the  Cerved 
and organisational structures intend- Group further optimised the existing 
2
ed to suitably identify, measure, man- Enterprise  Risk  Management  model 
age and monitor the main risks, and  and associated methodology through:
ensure that the business is run con- G
o
sistently with the set objectives. The  › definition of a framework to bring  ve
r
n
Board of Directors, with the assistance  together  specific  risk  assessments  a
n
of the Control, Risk and Sustainability  within the Risk Universe, such as those  ce
Committee, exercises these functions. related  to  Italian  Legislative  Decree 
In order to align risk governance with  231/2001 and to information security;
best corporate governance practices  › continuation of the transition to-
3
and taking into account the risk man- wards  the  COSO  ERM  Framework 
agement and internal control powers  -  2017:  Enterprise  Risk  Management 
identified  in  the  Corporate  Govern- Framework:  Integrating  with  Strategy 
P
e
ance Code, the Cerved Group has set  and Performance. o
p
up  its  own  process  for  identifying,  le
measuring,  managing  and  monitor- Furthermore,  the  Cerved  Group 
ing corporate risks called “Enterprise  strengthened the mapping of ESG 
Risk  Management”  (the  “ERM  Pro- Risks, through specific classification. It 
cess”). supplemented these risks with the re-
sults of the updated risk mapping and  4
In this regard, and with a view to fur- assessment activities carried out. As a 
ther structuring the process, a ded- result of this activity, Cerved Group’s 
C
icated ERM function was set up, by  overall  risk  catalogue  (so-called  o
n
resolution of the Board of Directors of  “Risk Universe”) was updated. tin
u
Cerved Group S.p.A. of 23 December  Cerved continued on a path for the  it
y
2019 and subject to preparatory activ- continuous  improvement  of  its 
ities by the company and to discussion  Enterprise  Risk  Management  (ERM) 
with the Control, Risk and Sustainabil- model by progressively implementing 
ity Committee. methods and tools capable of manag-
5
ing all those events that, potentially, 
The  ERM  process  implemented  at  could undermine the achievement of 
Group level and with particular spe- the Group’s objectives.  S
o
cialisations within the single subsidi- cie
t
aries includes the following activities  In consideration of the activities car- y
on a six-monthly basis: ried out by Cerved and the charac-
›  identifying and assessing the Group’s  teristics of the reference market, the 
main risks; main risks identified by the Group 
›  identifying  and  updating  the  re- for the areas of relevance for the pur-
sponse actions to manage the main  poses  of  Italian  Legislative  Decree  6
risks; 254/2016 and relevant management 
› identifying and monitoring the time- methods are detailed below.
E
n
v
ir
o
n
m
e
n
t
55