ence to the type of risk, the Group car- advertising, promotion and sponsor-
ried out checks to understand: ships.
1
›  the counterparties;
›  the amount of transactions; ◗ Environmental compliance
›  the countries involved. Id
e
The main risk identified by the Group  n
t
it
The checks are being completed and  with regard to environmental issues  y
the results will be reported in the 231  regards the ineffective and incom-
SB Reports of the companies involved.  plete  monitoring  and  measuring 
Cerved Group adopted an Anti-Mon- of energy consumption and of rel-
ey Laundering Policy which was ap- evant greenhouse gas emissions, as 
proved by the Board of Directors on  well  as  climate  change  topics  that  2
13 March 2020 and is available on the  could have an impact on access to the 
corporate website in the “Investor Re- Group’s premises13. 
G
lations & ESG” section. o
v
The Group dealt with the gradual im- er
n
◗ Economic and product responsibi- plementation of a system for moni- an
c
lity, technological innovation toring energy consumption and emis- e
sions throughout all offices: it defined 
The main risks that the Group iden- the persons in charge and monitored 
tified in this area are related to the  consumption in the CED (Centro Elab-
3
following factors: orazione Dati or Electronic Data Pro-
sessing) rooms and energy-intensive 
›  process complexity due to signifi- infrastructures. With regard to climate  P
e
cant interactions with other compa- change  issues,  mitigation  measures  op
le
ny stakeholders;  were taken, including specific action 
›  increasingly stricter product/service  on  potentially  impacted  premises 
release timing; and the assignment of laptops to 
›  product regulatory compliance  employees.
checks right from the planning 
stage. Cerved Group adopted an Environ- 4
mental Policy which was approved 
The  Group  implemented  activities  by the Board of Directors on 13 March 
C
to  communicate  the  Group’s  stra- 2020 and is available on the corporate  o
n
t
tegic initiatives to the market and to  website in the “Investor Relations &  in
u
periodically  monitor  their  status  of  ESG” section. it
y
progress compared to what original-
ly  communicated.  Communication  There were no instances of non-com-
channels  with  stakeholders  were  pliance with environmental laws and 
also set up that allow immediate com- regulations.
5
munication of any updates and signif-
icant events that may have an impact  ◗ Human rights 
on the initiatives. S
o
c
The main risks in this area are relat- ie
t
y
Cerved Group adopted a Responsi- ed to debt collection activities, i.e., 
ble Marketing Policy which was ap- non-compliance  with  the  principles 
proved by the Board of Directors on  set out in the Group’s Human Rights 
13 March 2020 and is available on the  Policy  and  drawn  up  on  the  basis 
corporate website in the “Investor Re- of the UNIREC Code of Conduct for 
6
lations & ESG” section. Credit  Management  and  Protection 
Processes. To mitigate this risk, the 
There were no cases of non-compli- Group drafted several debt collection 
E
n
ance with regulations and/or self-reg- procedures and dedicated a specific  v
ir
ulatory  codes  regarding  product/ section of the Group’s Policy on the  13  Potential heavy  on
snowfall on Mangone  m
service information and labelling or  respect for human rights to respon- and access to premises  en
marketing communications, including  sible debt collection.  temporarily unavai- t
lable.
57