CERVED GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
As  part  of  the  collection  activities, 
with specific reference to compliance  Cerved set up various engagement 
with Consumer Law, the issue of the  programmes  for  its  employees 
respect for debtors’ rights was ad- (which will be described in greater de-
dressed in terms of: tail in the relevant chapters) including 
›  rules and limits when making con- benefit measures, work-life balance, 
tact via phone collection and/or tax  flexible working hours, smart-working 
collection network; and exit interviews in order to meas-
›  contact times and precautions; ure and understand the reasons that 
›  structured control system for both  bring people to leave the Group.
phone collection and door-to-door 
collection activities. ◗ Relations with institutions
As regards the risks along the Group’s  The main risk identified by the Group 
supply  chain,  Cerved’s  procurement  is the failure to take into account 
market is mainly in Italy: thanks to ex- the expectations of the institutions 
isting laws and ongoing monitoring,  and to not include them when de-
there appear to be no significant  fining  the  sustainability  strategy. 
risks in the procurement area. Mon- This risk is mitigated through constant 
itoring of the activities of suppliers is  and structured dialogue between the 
carried out respecting the rights of  institutions and Cerved and through 
workers, particularly with regard to  the  creation  of  partnerships  that 
the freedom of association and collec- can create value for all Group stake-
tive bargaining, preventing the risk of  holders. 
violations of human rights.
◗ Data Security and Cybersecurity
Cerved  Group  adopted  a  Human 
Rights Policy which was approved by  Risks related to IT and system secu-
the Board of Directors on 13 March  rity, which are essential for the com-
2020 and is available on the corporate  pany’s operations (in terms of system 
website in the “Investor Relations &  availability,  data  and  equipment  in-
ESG” section. tegrity, data privacy) as well as any at-
tacks and/or incidents to corporate 
◗ Personnel management IT security, which aim at intercepting 
the Group’s confidential information 
In the area of human resources man- or  information  containing  data  that 
agement, the Group identified the fol- may compromise employees’ privacy, 
lowing specific risks: are the main risks connected to the 
specific area. In order to monitor and 
›  Planning of company succession  prevent such risks, Cerved is provided 
plans; with an Information Security Man-
›  Skills development initiatives; agement System that is aligned with 
›  Development of initiatives aimed  international  standard  UNI  CEI  ISO/
at the engagement of valuable re- IEC  27001:2017.  The  System  estab-
sources (Human Capital Risk). lishes the requirements for defining, 
implementing, managing, maintaining 
In order to mitigate these risks, the  and improving the system as regards 
Group intensified its training activ- logical, physical and organisational se-
ities  and  learning  opportunities.  curity aspects. 
Furthermore,  at  the  conclusion  of 
their  employment  relationship  with  With a view to an approach of contin-
Cerved, employees are provided with  uous improvement and taking into ac-
outplacement tools in collaboration  count the evolution of IT technologies 
with external companies, in order to  available in the market, Cerved con-
guarantee  a  positive  transition  into  tinues to follow a multipronged ap-
the job market.  proach to improve its management 
58