system, including: Lists  of  the  members  of  the  emer-
gency teams and the emergency and 
1
›  Organisational  issues,  relying  on  evacuation plans, designed to achieve 
the Security Committee to perform  proper  handling  of  safety  issues  at 
a coordination and monitoring role  all locations, are posted on the com- Id
e
with regard to security activities; pany’s Intranet. The prevention initia- n
t
›  Verification, updating and moni- tives mentioned above are supported  ity
toring adopted policies and proce- by constant attention to the manda-
dures; tory training required by Italian Leg-
›  Adoption of new technologies in  islative Decree no. 81/08, concerning 
the cybersecurity area; the protection of employee health 
›  Stipulation of a specific insurance  and safety and the training of emer- 2
policy to cover cyber risks; gency teams.
›  Monitoring specific risk indicators 
G
(also using a third-party Cyber Secu- COORDINATION BETWEEN  o
v
rity Rating system); THE PARTIES INVOLVED IN THE  er
n
›  Monitoring  the  risk  of  informa- INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK  an
c
tion security with third parties; MANAGEMENT SYSTEM  e
›  Vulnerability  assessment  and 
penetration test activities; Coordination  between  the  parties 
›  Increasing user awareness through  involved in the Internal Control and 
3
training/educational  sessions  and  Risk Management System is ensured 
the launch of a dedicated informa- by constant information flows be-
tion channel called Cerved Security  tween them, with a view to efficiency  P
e
Lab. and full mutual integration.  op
le
The Director in charge and the mem-
◗ Health and Safety bers of the Board of Statutory Audi-
tors are invited to attend the meetings 
This issue is addressed through or- of the Control, Risk and Sustainability 
ganisational  measures  consistent  Committee,  as  required  by  relevant 
with Italian Legislative Decree no.  regulations. Furthermore, the Super- 4
81/2008 (Consolidated Law on Occu- visory Body is invited to attend every 
pational Health and Safety), as sub- six months, pursuant to Italian Legis-
C
sequently amended. A Risk Assess- lative Decree 231/2001. o
n
t
ment Document is prepared for each  Other persons who are not members  in
u
Group company, consistent with reg- of the Control, Risk and Sustainabil- it
y
ulations and company structures. In  ity  Committee  may  also  attend  the 
this regard, the Group’s Supervisory  meetings if they are requested to do 
Bodies  carry  out  verification  and  so by the Committee. These persons 
monitoring  activities  periodically,  to  provide information and give relevant 
5
the extent of their competency. In ad- assessments on aspects of the Con-
dition, meetings are held at least once  trol and Risk System, according to the 
a year with the members of first aid  items on the agenda. The Internal Au- So
c
and fire-fighting teams to review the  dit Manager also attends Committee  ie
t
y
main critical issues and implement ap- meetings as secretary.
propriate corrective actions. 
6
E
n
v
ir
o
n
m
e
n
t
59