Whoever makes a report through  the System Manager will immediately  15  This person is the 
Internal Audit Function 
this  system  is  protected  by  the  investigate the matter together with  Manager, for all Group  1
Group, even when the report, although  the functions involved in the facts de- companies, except for 
Cerved Rating Agency 
unfounded, is based on good faith and  scribed.  S.p.A. and Cerved Mas-
ter Services S.p.A. for 
reasonableness; in the event of a vi- which this person is the  Id
e
olation, a special disciplinary proce- Two reports17 were received in 2019  Compliance Function  n
Manager. The System  tit
dure is set up. The System Manager15,  related  to  the  Whistleblowing  Man- Manager is responsible  y
for ensuring that the 
in fact, with the support of the Human  agement  System  implemented  by 
whistleblowing man-
Resources Function, monitors any re- the Company. These reports were re- agement process is car-
ried out in compliance 
taliatory, unfair and/or discriminatory  ceived and managed by the System  with the regulations in 
behaviour against the whistleblowers  Manager  (who  carried  out  the  pre- force.
16  Such as, for example, 
through the analysis and overall as- paratory  investigative  activities)  and  changes of office or  2
duties, transfer of 
sessment of specific “Red Flags”16. subsequently by the relevant internal 
premises, requests to 
departments. change duties, long 
absences due to illness,  G
If  whistleblowers  believe  they  have  disputes/disciplinary  o
v
suffered retaliatory conduct as a re- ›  Report n.1: action was taken by the  munepaasiudr elesa, vreeq, nueegstast ifvoer   ern
sult of a report they have made, they  competent functions; performance assess- an
ments, etc. c
are invited by the Group to submit a  ›  Report n. 2: analysis and assessment  17  Both reports regard  e
new report on the retaliation suffered.  activities are still under way. "business integrity", 
according to the clas-
In such cases, the Group ensures that  sification detailed in 
the “Procedure for the 
use and management  3
of the whistleblowing 
system”
P
e
o
p
le
Privacy policy & GDPR compliance
4
Data collection, analysis and processing are the very  C
o
n
foundation of the products and services offered by the Group.  tin
u
In this context, the protection of privacy is a particularly  it
y
relevant issue which permeates all business processes in a 
transverse manner.
5
On 23 December 2019 the Board of  ment and Control organisational mod- S
o
c
Directors of Cerved Group approved  el that, by clearly mapping the tasks,  ie
t
y
the  Group’s  General  Personal  Data  roles and responsibilities of each per-
Processing Policy (Privacy Policy). The  son in accordance with the accounta-
document provides details on the or- bility principle, officially establishes 
ganisation of the roles, tasks and  the roles of the various organisa-
responsibilities involved in the pro- tional units within significant cor-
tection of Personal Data, with par- porate  processes.  Thanks  to  this  6
ticular reference to bodies, functions,  model,  Cerved  renewed  and  fine-
areas and business units, procedures  tuned its personal data governance 
E
n
and provisions adopted for the pro- system, based on the identification of  v
ir
tection of data. material  risks  and  the  effectiveness  on
m
of the adopted safeguards, enabling  e
n
The Group adopted a Privacy Manage- widespread implementation, constant  t
61