The table shows the instances of the  periods (from 25/05 to 31/12 of both 
exercise of rights by data subjects  years) have been considered. For the 
1
who requested a corrective action  sake of completeness, the 2019 annu-
in relation to the Credit Information  al volume has also been reported. 
and Credit Management division. No  Id
e
reports were received regarding per- In  2019,  3  complaints  pursuant  to  n
t
it
sonal data processing errors in rela- art. 77 GDPR were lodged by the data  y
tion to the products of the Marketing  subjects with the Data Protection Au-
Solutions division. thority.  Only  one  of  the  complaints 
resulted in inviting Cerved to adhere 
CREDIT INFORMATION - BUSINESS  to the data subject’s requests, while in 
INFORMATION REGARDING  no case was a ruling issued against  2
NATURAL PERSONS Cerved. Finally, 4 proceedings were 
initiated  before  the  judicial  author-
G
If the report comes from a data sub- ity  based  on  alleged  personal  data  o
v
ject (according to the definition con- breaches and, again, no rulings were  er
n
tained in the GDPR), the Group is re- issued against Cerved. an
c
quired to give feedback on the type  e
of processing of personal data in  CREDIT MANAGEMENT - DEBT 
the archives since the form of the re- COLLECTION
quest is a privacy request. The request 
3
can be made regarding access to data,  In 2019, the Group received and han-
right to be forgotten and rectification  dled a total of 5 instances of the ex-
of personal data in Cerved’s archives. ercise of rights by data subjects who  P
e
If  the  request  comes  from  a  legal  requested a corrective action on the  op
le
person, there is no obligation to re- data contained in the Credit Manage-
ply, since the person is not included  ment  division’s  databases,  and  just 
among the data subjects falling within  one complaint to the Data Protec-
the scope of the GDPR. Customer ser- tion Authority followed by an invita-
vice will, however, provide support in  tion to provide feedback.
these cases also.  4
 At the time of drafting of this docu-
A total of 344 cases of privacy re- ment, the proceedings are still pend-
C
quests were received and managed  ing.   o
n
t
in 2019, which required rectification  Such low numbers show the Group’s  in
u
of data in Cerved’s archives for busi- commitment to managing custom- it
y
ness  information  purposes.  Data  er debt collection ethically. In 2019, 
are available only from 25 May 2018,  the Group revised the figures report-
due to the need to adjust ticket clas- ed  in  previous  years  and  took  into 
sification  to  the  GDPR  provisions,  account  only  reports  that  required 
5
meaning that comparisons cannot be  corrective action. This was necessary 
made with the time series of previous  to provide more accurate information 
years. To correctly calculate the trend  and a basis of comparison consistent  S
o
c
between  2018  and  2019,  the  same  for 2019 volumes. ie
t
y
6
E
n
v
ir
o
n
m
e
n
t
63