CERVED GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
Staff composition, diversity and 
Human Rights
Cerved believes it fundamental to invest and protect its most 
precious capital: people, whose ideas, professionalism and talent 
are the real added value of the services provided.
Attention to the quality of life, peo- EMPLOYMENT 
ple’s wellbeing, equal opportunities, 
training  and  adequate  incentive  At the end of the reporting year, the 
systems are a key factor of company  Group had approximately 2,60020 em-
management for a business such as  ployees, increasing by 13% compared 
Cerved  Group’s,  which  acknowledg- to the previous year, 61% of whom 
es the central role of individuals. The  were women. 
Human Rights Policy was drawn up 
to formally establish the Group’s com- Italy is the country where the majori-
mitment to these issues and was ap- ty of staff is concentrated (81%), con-
proved by the Board of Directors on  firming the Group’s strong local roots. 
~ 2.600 
13 March 2020. The Policy confirms  The remaining 19% of employees are 
employees
the declarations made in the Code of  employed in Switzerland, Romania 
Ethics on human and personal rights  and Greece, where Cerved operates 
97%  and specifies its principles, solid com- through  its  subsidiaries  in  Digital 
permanent  mitments and management methods. Marketing  (Switzerland)  and  Credit 
contract Management (Romania and Greece). 
For further details on human resourc- Women  represent  58%  of  full-time 
es  management  issues  and  Cerved  employees  (2,292).  The  majority  of 
Group’s commitment to protect Hu- employees (70%) are between 30 and 
man Rights, and for more information  50 years of age. 97% of contracts are 
on staff remuneration issues, please  permanent (2,489), a figure that re-
refer to the following documents avail- flects our commitment to ensure full 
able on the corporate website in the  employment and to offer our people 
“Investor Relations & ESG” section:  long-term  prospects.  Of  these,  62% 
Code of Ethics, Human Rights Policy,  are women (1,538). There were 344 
Remuneration Report. new hires during the reporting year 
(13% hiring rate), 57% of which were 
in the 30-50 age group and 60% were 
women. Total outgoing turnover was 
11%.
20  With the exclusion 
of 11 employees of 
Cerved FinLine S.r.l. as 
the company does not 
fall within the scope of 
reporting.
68