CERVED GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
the opportunity to take part in group  increasingly inclusive culture of diver-
dynamics to highlight their relational  sity.
skills and critical thinking abilities.
A  new  Exit  Interview  process  was 
The employee selection phase is cru- launched in the second half of 2019. 
cial, as is their actual inclusion in the  An online form and subsequent face-
company.  For  this  reason,  a  struc- to-face meeting with HR were used to 
tured onboarding process was de- measure and understand the reasons 
veloped  to  help  people  who  begin  behind the decision to leave Cerved, 
working with the Group to smoothly  both generally and by specific area, 
and quickly settle into their new work  and an overview of the resigning 
environment during the early months  employee’s  journey  was  collected 
of employment, and to broaden their  to gather ideas for improvement. The 
networks and understanding of the  Exit Interview is available in Italian, 
Cerved  culture.  A  Welcome  Event,  English and Romanian, meaning that 
which is attended by all new employ- it may be applied at cross-country lev-
ees on their first day of work, includes  el.
an overview of the company, a de-
tailed description of the onboarding  CERVED NEXT CAMPUS AS A GOOD 
process and administrative issues, as  EXAMPLE OF EMPLOYER BRANDING
well as a presentation of the benefits 
and services offered. Employer  Branding  is  certainly  a 
strategic  lever  to  better  position 
Each new hire is then assigned a bud- Cerved in the labour market. Several 
dy, i.e. a Cerved employee preferably  projects were developed in 2019 to 
from another structure/division who  raise awareness of the environment 
will  support  the  person  during  the  and opportunities that the company 
early onboarding stages. Buddies are  offers to recent graduates and stu-
recruited through a Call 4 volunteer  dents about to graduate.
on the Workplace platform where all 
A buddy for 
Cerved employees were able to apply,  A combination of Employer Branding, 
each new hire
showing great enthusiasm for the in- recruitment activities and information 
itiative and the wish to make connec- about  Cerved  blended  into  Cerved 
tions with new colleagues. Next Campus, an event focused on 
young talents, within the framework 
The search for ideal candidates takes  of  the  broader  insight  provided  by 
place  not  only  externally,  but  also  Cerved  Next,  the  largest  national 
within the Group itself, with a view to  event  on  data  driven  economy.  In 
enhancing and developing the tal- 2019, 23 people took part in the initia-
ent of our people. In fact, thanks to  tive, selected not on the basis of their 
the Internal Job Posting Brain - found- CV or graduation mark, but through 
ed on the principles of transparency  a digital challenge that tested their 
and meritocracy - Cerved employees  mindset and knowledge of the digital 
can apply for open positions at the  world. During the event, candidates 
company,  becoming  protagonists  were asked to become Cerved profes-
of their own growth. Brain is also an  sionals for one day, working as a team 
enabler  for  the  contamination  of  on a real case focused on our prod-
ideas, knowledge and skills transver- ucts. The solutions were presented to 
sal to the entire group, and for the  a jury composed of Managers from 
diffusion of a culture of feedback and  different  areas  of  Cerved.  Many  of 
professional development. The acqui- those participants now work inside 
sition of new businesses and Cerved’s  the Group: a strong signal that shows 
greater presence in countries other  how important and effective Employ-
than Italy boosted opportunities for  er Branding is.
exchange and participation in inter-
national projects, helping to create an 
72