various  regulations,  including  the  and  support  the  dissemination  of  22  The information 
included and related to 
Organisation Model 231, the Code  shared values such as transparency,  the training activities  1
of Ethics, anticorruption and the risk  participation, listening and the abili- refers to the scope of 
the Group's Italian 
management system. ty to handle mistakes constructively,  companies.
as an opportunity for learning. Id
e
›  School of Management: a Perfor- n
t
it
mance  Leadership  training  course  As regards the collection of feedback  y
was developed in 2019 for manag- on training, after Cerved has delivered 
ers  working  in  the  sales  network  its  courses,  it  provides  participants 
and Credit Management area. The  with  a  Customer  Satisfaction  sur-
purpose was to share a common  vey  for  assessing  their  satisfaction 
Leadership model within the entire  and gathering any suggestions for im- 2
Group and to align the value mind- provement.
set  on  issues  such  as  delegation, 
G
feedback, people enhancement and  DEVELOPMENT PLAN  o
v
effective management of inter-func- er
n
tional dynamics. We also carried out  In order to steer individual profession- an
c
executive coaching courses aimed  al development and strengthen skills  e
at helping managers develop their  that the Group believes can promote 
leadership skills. the professional growth of staff, the 
Development  Plan  is  made  availa-
3
›  Team Building activities: through  ble to all interested parties: this tool 
experience-based  workshops  and  allows  staff  to  implement  develop-
seminars organised using the Lego  ment actions within a set time period  P
e
Serious  Play  methodology,  these  by requesting, in a proactive manner,  op
le
internally  managed  activities  seek  interviews  with  their  manager  and 
to improve cooperation. They also  HR to exchange view and receive feed-
stimulate a culture of mutual trust  back to support them22.
4
C
o
n
t
in
u
it
Incentive system, welfare and  y
work-life balance
5
Concern for the quality of life and the wellbeing of the people who 
work at the Group is of fundamental importance to Cerved and  So
c
translates into concrete actions aimed at guaranteeing a positive  iet
y
employee experience.
Protecting  the  wellbeing  of  the  lated stress and physical and men-
Group’s  people  also  means  sharing  tal health through mindfullness prac- Cerved Feel 
6
best practices and increasing aware- tices. In addition, a vaccination service  Good: 
ness of how to have a healthy physi- for employees interested in this ser- value to 
cal and mental lifestyle: for this rea- vice was set up within the company. employees’  En
son, the Cerved Feel Good campaign  wellbeing viro
was launched in 2019, during which  In 2019, for the second year running,  n
m
information was provided on correct  Cerved proposed Corporate Welfare.  e
n
t
nutrition and on handling work-re- It  expanded  the  number  of  recipi-
75