CERVED GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
ents and improved user experience  being, Cerved decided to renew and 
through the introduction of an inno- extend the employee dedicated spe-
vative platform with a wide range of  cial arrangements. Thanks to specific 
products:  from  the  reimbursement  agreements and to the partnership 
of instruction, transport and welfare  with  the  Corporate  Benefit  plat-
costs, to the purchase of vouchers, lei- form23, the opportunities to purchase 
sure packages, travel reservation and  products or access services at com-
other  products,  in  compliance  with  petitive prices for all employees were 
the relevant regulations. expanded during the year. Specifically, 
the Group set up new special arrange-
Corporate Welfare was developed in  ments or confirmed those already ex-
2019 and included two different plans:  isting in the following sectors:
a plan for the conversion of the per- ›  credit institutions for current ac-
formance bonus (already available in  counts,  mortgages  and  loans  with 
2018) and a Welfare on top plan, in- advantageous conditions;
troduced in 2019, for the Group’s Ex- ›  insurance products with favourable 
ecutives and Managers (Quadri). conditions for employees and family 
members:  motor  insurance  policy; 
With the first plan, the people des- supplementary  health  insurance 
ignated  as  recipients  of  the  perfor- policy for employees, managers and 
mance bonus were given the option of  executives  and  which  reimburses 
> 30.000 
either allocating it to Welfare, thus in- expenses in addition to the amounts 
Smart 
creasing their buying power, or asking  provided for in the respective funds, 
working 
that it be disbursed through the pay  home insurance policy, supplemen-
days  
slip. The results were extremely posi- tary pension, life insurance policy, 
tive, with a bonus conversion rate of  accident insurance policy;
> 60%  50% and a clear increase in the cred- ›  consumer goods;
employees  it actually used: of the total value of  ›  leisure and wellbeing services;
enabled the expected performance bonus, use  ›  health;
for welfare services increased by 11%.  ›  transport:  specifically,  the  special 
The introduction of an increase in the  arrangement with Atm and Trenord 
bonus was also appreciated, encour- was renewed and a special arrange-
aging people to convert the bonus (up  ment with the public transport ser-
to 6.5% increase for those converting  vice of Turin was set up and will be 
the entire bonus). available from 2020;
›  utilities.
All welfare process information was 
shared with users within the Work- All special arrangements are commu-
place group, where it was possible to  nicated through a Workplace group.
ask questions and report any prob-
lems. During the period of use, users  SUPPLEMENTAL COMPANY 
were supported by HR staff. COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 
AGREEMENT AND ADDITIONAL 
A survey was launched at the end of  BENEFITS FOR EMPLOYEES
the process asking for feedback on 
the process, in order to assess what  The Cerved Group entered into a Sup-
had been done and gather sugges- plemental Company Collective Bar-
tions and reports to improve the pro- gaining Agreement with represent-
cess the following year. The results  atives of the majority trade unions 
showed a score of 3.9 out of 5 as re- back in 2015. The agreement provided 
gards overall satisfaction with the ser- for the inclusion of issues relating to 
23  The employees of  vice, while 94% of respondents said  working hours, flexibility, holidays, ex 
foreign companies  they will definitely repeat the expe- holidays, approved leave, part time, 
and the employees of 
the Italian companies  rience in 2020. employee severance indemnity, trans-
MBS Consulting, Dyna 
fers,  business  travel,  travel  policy, 
Green, Innovation 
Team and Quaestio  In 2019, with a view to people’s well- overtime, meal vouchers and canteen 
were excluded.
76