services, study permits, performance  SMART WORKING AS A WINNING  24  The employees of 
foreign companies 
bonus,  exceptional  weather  events,  EXAMPLE OF WORK-LIFE BALANCE were excluded (Proweb  1
remote work, illness and other institu- guarantees additional 
maternity leave for 2 
tions. Mutual trust, empowerment and fo- weeks and paternity 
leave for 1 week) as 
cus  on  wellbeing  are  the  pillars  of  well as the employees  Id
e
With the Supplemental Company Col- smart working, an agile and eco-sus- of the Italian compa- n
nies MBS Consulting,  tit
lective Bargaining Agreement Cerved  tainable work modality that enables  Dyna Green, Innovation  y
offers its employees24 several benefits  employees to perform their activities  Team, Quaestio, Juliet, 
Credit Management, 
aimed at fostering care giver employ- remotely, without the need for their  Click Adv, ProWebItalia, 
Major1, Cerved Fin Line, 
ees and better work-life balance: physical presence. Cerved Master Service 
›  Extension of the post partum  and Spazio Dati.
part-time work schedule by 12  Since 2017, the year in which smart  2
months more than under the Na- working  was  launched,  the  project 
tional Collective Bargaining Agree- has grown and over 1,400 employees 
G
ment; have now the option to work remotely  o
v
›  Work schedule flexibility; one day a week: the programme also  er
n
›  Possibility to request an advance  plans to extend remote working to dif- an
c
from the employee severance in- ferent company areas. There are three  e
demnity; places where Cerved smart workers 
›  An extra day off for fathers, be- can choose to work from: their home, 
yond the ordinay 5-day paternity  a co-working area or a company hub.
3
leave required pursuant to law,  Smart working is a strong example of 
upon the birth of a child; how  the  company’s  principles  are 
›  Paid leaves, charged in full to the  rooted  in  everyday  life;  the  princi- P
e
company, for medical specialist vis- ple of a trust-based culture spreads  op
le
its or illness/indisposition. throughout a mindset that enables re-
mote work, based on results, not on 
Confirming the attention it pays to the  the physical presence of people. Fur-
quality of people’s life, the Group also  thermore, smart working is atten-
offers employees access to the com- tive to sustainability: in 2019, over 
pany  restaurant  at  the  San  Donato  30,000 days of smart working were  4
premises  and  ticket  restaurants  for  used by our employees, thus avoiding 
the other premises. the need to travel to and from work.
C
o
n
t
in
u
it
y
Employee engagement and 
5
employee satisfaction
S
o
c
ie
t
y
The first anonymous change man- tive is to accompany changes in the 
agement Pulse Survey was launched  post-reorganisation and launch phase 
in  December  2019  addressing  all  of Purposes and principles by listening 
Cerved employees and associates on  to the people involved with the aim to  89% 
Workplace on the date it was launched  monitor their well-being during the  Employee 
6
(3,562 people, 1,148 of which respond- change management phases and im- satisfaction
ents), to understand the engagement  plement any corrective actions. The 
of the people working for Cerved. The  first survey brought to light very posi- E
n
Survey will be repeated once a month  tive results: 89% of employees would  vir
o
for at least 11 times (6 questions on a  suggest Cerved as an employer. n
m
scale of 1-5) divided by BU, age group  e
n
and  employee  seniority.  The  objec- t
77