A commitment that we wanted to express also through the creative concept of this 
document that focuses on Italy and some of its strengths: cities on the move, natural 
and architectural beauties, the drive towards innovation, and the people who with 
dedication and courage make Italy a great country.
Based on this guiding thread, our wish is to support the sustainable development 
of the national economic system by forging a new entrepreneurial culture and 
contributing to the relaunching of Italian productivity. We are convinced that we 
can play a key role in helping Italy to understand and seize the benefits of two 
drivers of growth over the coming decades: innovation and the transition to a more 
sustainable production system.
 
We will promote several programmes to make the potential of data and 
technologies available to the national economic system, open to the contribution of 
other businesses, institutions and operators.
ATTENTION TO PEOPLE AND DATA SECURITY
To achieve our Purpose, we believe that investing and protecting our most precious 
capital is fundamental: people, who with their ideas, talent and professionalism 
allow us to provide our services. 
We promote initiatives to support the development, engagement and cooperation of 
our people, implemented through training programmes and concern for work-life 
balance (smart working). Our social enterprise Workplace platform fosters employee 
engagement and feeling of company belonging, uniting individuals who physically 
work in distant places. A framework for all of the above is provided by our principles 
of ethics, integrity, transparency, anticorruption and respect for human rights that 
characterise the manner in which Cerved Group operates and are embodied in the 
Code of Ethics and the policies adopted throughout the Group.
At Cerved, the collection, analysis and processing of data are the activities that form 
the very basis of the products and services offered by the Group: for this reason, 
proper processing of personal data is a highly significant issue that, in 2018, drove 
us to completing compliance with GDPR requirements and allowing us, in 2019, to 
formalise our commitment in a General Privacy Policy. 
THE UNIVERSAL PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS WE TAKE 
INSPIRATION FROM 
Already in 2018 we decided to join the United Nations Global Compact, the largest 
voluntary global initiative concerning sustainability issues. In 2019, we acquired 
“participant” status, also ensuring the definition of a reporting and monitoring 
system for the commitments made. This year, through our subsidiary Cerved Rating 
Agency, we signed the statement on ESG in credit ratings, an initiative under the 
UN-supported Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). The decision was taken 
to show the Group’s will - together with Cerved Rating Agency, leader in Europe for 
number of non-financial corporate ratings assigned and monitored - to incorporate 
environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) issues into investment 
9