CERVED GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
Share Plan or PSP 2022-2024): this  er Return ranking of the companies 
stock based plan has three assign- composing the FTSE Italia Mid Cap 
ment cycles with three-year vesting  index), weighing 15%
for  each  cycle.  The  performance  ●   sector TSR (comparison of Cerved 
conditions refer to: Total Shareholder Return compared 
●  an adjusted PBT (Profit Before Tax- to the sector FTSE Italia Industria in-
es) weighing 70% dex), weighing 15%. 
●   MID CAP TSR (position of Cerved 
with respect to the Total Sharehold-
Performance objectives Long-term incentive plan (PSP 2022-2024) 
Performance indicator Weight
Growth of Adjusted Profit before Taxation and Amortisation per 
70%
Share "PBTA"
Cerved Total Shareholder Return ("TSR") vs FTSE MidCap Italia Index 15%
Cerved Total Shareholder Return ("TSR") vs FTSE Italia Industria Index 15%
The  maturity  curve  means  that  a  Other remuneration elements are 
threshold value is expected for each  envisaged for some Strategic Execu-
target, below which no share will be  tives such as: company car and ad hoc 
attributed  and  a  maximum  perfor- insurance policies; Welfare plan cor-
mance threshold (cap) diversified ac- responding to 3% of the annual fixed 
cording to whether it relates to Exec- component,  any  non-competition 
utive Directors or Strategic Executives,  agreements.  According  to  Company 
to which the maximum number of  policy, Executive Directors and Stra-
shares will be attributed if achieved  tegic Executives are not attributed 
or exceeded. The Plan also includes a  discretionary bonuses such as one 
lock-up clause which is diversified ac- off payments, except for retention bo-
cording to the professional category.  nuses used to limit the risk of resigna-
In relation to the disbursement plans  tion by key figures. If the employment 
of the variable component, in accord- relationship is terminated, the policy 
ance with the guidelines provided by  establishes the maximum amount of 
the  Corporate  Governance  Code  of  severance pay as 24 monthly salaries 
Borsa  Italiana,  contractual  clauses  calculated on the basis of the last fixed 
(clawback clauses) are provided that  remuneration and the average of the 
allow  the  Company  to  request  the  variable remuneration received in a 
return, in whole or in part, of varia- given period of time.
ble components of the remuneration 
paid to subjects who engage in wilful  The remuneration of the Non-Execu-
misconduct and gross negligence or  tive and Independent Directors pro-
if it is ascertained that the degree of  vides for the disbursement of only the 
achievement of the performance ob- fixed component. These amounts are 
jectives  was  determined  based  on  not linked to economic results, nor to 
manifestly incorrect or falsified calcu- the specific objectives of the Compa-
lations. ny.  Non-Executive  and  Independent 
members do not have share-based re-
For further details on the remuner- muneration plans.
ation  and  incentive  policies  of  the 
Group’s Executive Directors and Stra- ◗ Sales Organisations and sales force 
tegic Executives, please refer to the 
Remuneration Report available on the  Cerved has a particularly large sales 
company website under the heading  force consisting of enasarco agents 
“Investor Relations & ESG”. and employees, to whom the Group 
associates two different remuneration 
82