CERVED GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
Health and safety 
As enshrined in the Human Rights Policy, one of the Group’s 
commitments is that “Cerved promotes a culture of health 
and safety in the workplace, promoting risk prevention and 
awareness along with responsible employee conduct. 
The Group also undertakes to ensure  vention  measures  (stress  manage-
that the work environment and rela- ment  courses  as  the  Cerved  Feeel 
tive stress conditions are kept below  Good initiative mentioned before, job 
the legal thresholds and such as to  redisign,  or eventual general adjust-
not affect employees’ mental and  ments regarding work load).
physical integrity”.
Lists  of  the  members  of  the  emer-
This issue is addressed through or- gency teams and the emergency and 
ganisational  measures  consistent  evacuation plans, designed to achieve 
with the requirements of Italian Leg- proper  handling  of  safety  issues  at 
islative Decree no. 81/2008 (Consol- all locations, are posted on the com-
idated Law on Occupational Health  pany’s Intranet. The prevention initia-
and Safety). A Risk Assessment Doc- tives mentioned above are bolstered 
ument is prepared for each Group  by constant attention to the manda-
company, consistent with regulations  tory training required by Italian Leg-
and company structures. In this re- islative Decree no. 81/08, concerning 
gard, reports on the outcome of the  the protection of employee health and 
activities of the Supervisory Bodies  safety and the training of emergency 
that verify content and evaluate man- teams. 
agement activities are submitted pe-
riodically. In addition, meetings are  With  the  aim  of  strengthening  the 
held at least once a year with the  value of the culture of safety, since 
members of first aid and fire-fighting  2018 Cerved has embarked on a car-
teams to review the main critical is- dio-prevention path which led to the 
sues and implement appropriate cor- installation of semiautomatic defibril-
rective actions. In 2019, the Group  lators at the locations of San Donato 
began evaluating the stress-relat- Milanese, Mangone and Turin and the 
ed work risk for each location, which  relative training of more than 80 peo-
will be completed by 2021, with the  ple as authorised personnel for use in 
purpose to improve the monitoring  emergency situations.
of mental health and implement pre-
84