1
Industrial relations
Id
e
n
t
it
y
Industrial Relations are of great importance for the Cerved Group, both 
to fulfil the obligations established by law or by the Collective Bargaining 
Agreements applied in the Group, and to provide information and consult 
with trade union representatives for ordinary management and in  2
particular situations or when significant organisational changes arise. 
G
o
Industrial Relations also become in- In  2019,  the  commitment  to  social  ve
r
creasingly important in terms of the  dialogue and the objectives pursued  na
n
corporate tradition that considers un- concerned the management of regu- c
e
ion representatives as a significant  latory and contractual institutions of 
interlocutor for the examination of  the employment relationship, includ-
issues related to business activity.  ing, in detail: 
In  addition  to  the  purely  organisa- ›  holiday/approved  leave  through  3
tional  aspects  related  to  personnel  discussions to determine collective 
management, the consultations also  closure periods;
P
concern  issues  related  to  work-life  ›  working  hours  and  flexibility  to  eo
p
balance (smart working), and welfare  meet the operational needs of spe- le
(conversion  of  results  bonuses  into  cific functions or to reconcile work-
welfare services). The Industrial Rela- life balance; 
tions activities in the Cerved offices in  ›  consolidation  and  progressive  ex-
Romania offer management support  tension of smart working.
on issues with organisational or eco-
4
nomic impacts. The union serves the  The  social  dialogue  also  concerned 
role of an informed interlocutor and,  the management of certain economic 
within the perimeter of the legislation,  aspects, in particular sharing criteria  C
o
n
helps make requests relating to con- for determining performance bonus- t
in
tracts and the economic treatment of  es based on strengthening value and  u
it
y
employment relationships, which are  the provision of the welfare option as 
negotiated and possibly implemented  an alternative to disbursement of the 
in company agreements. cash bonus.  
5
Thanks to its dedicated HR team, in  The  Industrial  Relations  activities  in 
2019 the Group sought to further in- Romania continue to be managed by 
volve the unions, also through a series  the  Industrial  Relations  Function  of 
S
o
of  scheduled  information,  consulta- the Cerved Group Human Resources  c
ie
tion  and  negotiation  meetings  and  department  alongside  the  business  ty
through dedicated sessions with the  line25. 
representatives  of  Group  offices  or 
companies to address topics of spe- The  only  interlocutors  are  workers’ 
cific interest. The result of this activity  representatives, as there is currently 
included a consolidation of welfare  no external union support. They are  6
and work-life balance issues, as well  managed in relation to specific needs,  25  In 2019 the 
Industrial Relations 
as the coordination of operational  with dedicated meetings. The Industri-
activities were not 
E
company activities relating to per- al Relations activities serve to ensure  extended to foreign  n
v
sonnel management, with the aim of  the effective monitoring of regula- perimeters (in  iro
particular Greece  n
having a positive impact on the inter- tory issues and personnel manage- m
and Switzerland), 
e
nal climate.  ment on Company operations, with a  as they are not  n
t
currently involved.
85