The  availability  and  continuity  of  and of response times where spe-
the  provision  of  IT  services  are  cific SLAs (Service Level Agreements) 
1
measured using 2 methods for each  have been defined with customers.
provision platform:
For example, we report the uptime27 -  Id
e
›  Measurement of contracted Ser- defined as the time interval for which  n
t
it
vice Levels, using probes that sim- a service is available within a given pe- y
ulate customer operations; riod of time, of some of the main com-
›  Timely  measurement  of  errors  pany platforms:
in absolute value and percentages, 
2
Browsing service level indicators
Purchase indicators Uptime
G
o
Login Silos Credit Desk  (platform for Banks) 99.96% v
e
r
Login Cerved Credit Suite (platform for Corporates) 99.77% n
a
n
c
e
As a corollary of the certifications, the  addition, Cerved Rating Agency pub-
3
Group has an internal procedural  lishes a Transparency Report every 
system aimed at monitoring the  year which is designed to explain to 
processes related to IT Project Man- the market and the interested parties  P
e
agement, Incident and Problem Man- all the information needed to under- o
p
agement, Disaster Recovery and Risk  stand  its  governance,  main  policies  le
analysis and treatment. and the activities of the control func-
tions.
Each Group company has also defined 
the action guidelines that should be  The  information  processed  by  the 
adopted for: Centrale dei Bilanci (CeBi) area is rel- 4
›  data processing;  evant to the extent that it is included 
›  assigned responsibilities and the  in  most  of  the  Credit  Information 
C
company’s  entities  responsible  for  services supplied by Cerved. Specifi- o
n
t
data processing;  cally, CeBi oversees the development  in
u
›  minimum security measures. and maintenance of the scoring suite  it
y
As part of its business information  called CGS Cerved Group Score, on 
activity, Cerved collects and processes  the basis of which the credit reliabili-
information in compliance with indus- ty of the parties queried on Cerved’s 
try regulations. Compliance with the  platforms is assessed. The adoption 
5
provisions of the Privacy Code and the  of formally established and audited 
Code of Deontology ensures respect  analysis  processes  and  procedures 
of the right of the parties being sur- safeguards  the  objectivity  of  the  S
o
c
veyed  and  any  individuals  or  other  analyses  performed,  the  quality  of  ie
t
y
interested  parties  linked  with  them  the analysed data and the reliability 
economically. of the models’ results. In this context, 
official  technical-operational  stand-
Specifically  regarding  the  activity  of  ards,  control  procedures,  dedicated 
Cerved Rating Agency, in order to  reports and a process for the continu-
ensure  the  quality  and  integrity  of  ous monitoring of proprietary models  6
the rating process and the independ- were formally established.
ence of the assessments, the compa-
E
n
ny adopted a Corporate Governance  REGULATORY BASE & LICENCES 272  019 cumulative  vir
Code in line with the principles pro- data, worst case cal- on
posed by IOSCO (International Organ- To  conclude  that  which  is  stated  culation on working  me
days only, those with  n
ization of Securities Commissions). In  above,  it  should  be  remembered  t
maximum load
93