CERVED GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
that the activities carried out by the  transactions.  Cerved  Rating  Agency 
Group are governed by a substantial  S.p.A. is registered as a European rat-
regulatory base. In particular, some  ing agency pursuant to Regulation EC 
Cerved Group companies operate in  1060/2009 and is subject to super-
highly regulated contexts since they  vision by ESMA (European Securities 
own licences required by the articles  and Markets Authority). In addition, it 
134 TULPS28 for business information  is recognised as an External Credit 
activities and 115 TULPS for perform- Assessment Institution (ECAI) under 
ing out-of-court debt collection activi- EU Regulation 575/2013 of the Par-
ties on behalf of third parties. Cerved  liament and Council of the Europe-
28  C onsolidation Law on  Master Services S.p.A. has been en- an Union and as a Rating Tool by the 
Public Security
rolled in the Register of Financial In- ECB (European Central Bank) under 
29 C onsolidated Law on 
Banking termediaries pursuant to article 106  the  Eurosystem  Credit  Assessment 
TUB29 to carry out the Master Servic- Framework (ECAF).
ing activities regarding securitisation 
Innovation 
To strengthen its competitive advantage, Cerved develops its 
business activities while triangulating innovation components, 
differentiation factors and distinctive approaches. 
The Group’s investment plan is aimed  panding the coverage of official data, 
at  expanding  the  database,  scoring  including  those  that  are  not  of  the 
models  and  valuation  methodolo- chamber-of-commerce  type,  and 
gies and improving user experience.  strengthen its data scouting activities. 
Thanks to the application of Service  The objective is to make algorithms 
Design  logic,  it  develops  and  inte- even more predictive and informa-
grates new technologies with the aim  tion more interesting for customers 
of always finding safe, efficient and in- thanks to the use of multiple public or 
novative solutions. exclusive sources.
The cornerstones that guide the inno- With  regard  to  Open  Data,  Cerved 
vation and development path of the  carried out a project that allowed the 
Cerved Group are: integration of ANAC (National Anticor-
From data  ruption Agency) data regarding over 
to solutions › Data Driven Innovation 16  million  economic  transactions 
› Open Innovation between  the  Public  Administration 
› Partnerships and its suppliers, thereby increasing 
the  transparency  of  information  re-
DATA DRIVEN INNOVATION garding the Italian economic context.
Cerved is proud to include among its  In the Web Data area, Cerved launched 
strategic assets a series of algorithms  important projects for the use of in-
and  rules  defined  together  with  its  formation drawn mainly from corpo-
customers, structured to intercept the  rate websites and introduced seman-
right information at the right time and  tics techniques that offer better, more 
transform  data  into  strategic  ac- granular and strategic searching. In a 
tions to support its business.  complementary  fashion,  integrated 
by machine learning algorithms, Web 
More  specifically,  the  Group  com- Data are used to perform risk analy-
pleted several projects aimed at ex- ses of companies and offer analyses 
94