of specific clusters regarding the ter- EXAMPLES OF INNOVATION 
ritory, the industrial environment and 
1
the life phases of businesses. 
Capitalising  different  data  storage  Id
e
technologies,  the  Group  is  develop- n
t
it
ing projects aimed at exploiting the  y
most innovative products. Specifically,  ◗ Fully digital fintech commercial 
Cerved has 18 of the top 30 database  credit transfer platform. 
models in production worldwide and 
uses paradigms that include all of the  Cerved Money&GO is a latest-genera-
new  frameworks  (such  as  Hadoop)  tion technological platform for the  2
and  allow  fast  processing  even  of  purchase of commercial credits that 
non-structured data.  was  created  to  satisfy  companies’ 
G
need for working capital and is avail- o
v
Extremely  complex  methodologies  able to banks and financial companies  er
n
and solutions provide Cerved with an  that want to use it to serve their cus- an
c
incredible  competitive  advantage.  tomers efficiently and digitally. e
An  example  is  the  Neo4j  technolo- The credits transferred by the compa-
gy, also called “graph based”, which  nies will be purchased from a special 
makes  it  possible  to  develop  algo- purpose vehicle financed through a 
3
rithms at a reasonable cost and with  securitisation  program  implemented 
superior  performance.  Also  in  this  pursuant to Italian Law 130/99.
area, the Group developed Graph4Y- With Cerved Money&GO, companies  P
e
ou, an innovative platform that, using  and lenders will be able to evaluate  op
le
the API (Application Programming In- credits on the basis of official data 
terface) ecosystem, enables Cerved to  such as balance sheets, ownership re-
formulate data analyses in a massive  ports, protests, real estate data, list of 
and fast way, including not only a sin- members; data provided by Cerved 
gle company or person but a whole se- PayLine,  a  database  of  commercial 
ries of existing relationships between  payment  experiences;  open  data  4
a plurality of different parties. such as tenders, public funding and 
many  others  obtained  by  analysing 
C
By adopting DevOps models30, a set  web pages, corporate sites and social  o
n
t
of practices supported by automated  networks. in
u
and Lean Management tools, Cerved  it
y
introduced  new  automation  pro-
cesses for the software production 
and release chain, enabling customers 
to expect secure and high quality ap-
5
plications delivered much more quick- ◗ Big data platform for commercial 
ly. Special attention paid to the API  purposes
(Application  Programming  Interface)  S
o
c
ecosystem enables Cerved to simplify  A latest-generation platform that  ie
t
y
the dialogue between applications.  draws on the wealth of official Cerved 
A strong integration and information  data on all Italian companies (over 6 
30 S oftware development 
exchange component makes for fast- million) and data collected from open  methodology used in 
er accesses, while ensuring the scala- sources such as the web, social net- computer science which 
aims at communication, 
bility, control and flexibility of the de- works, news and makes them avail- collaboration and inte-
gration between deve- 6
veloped application platforms.  able through different channels.
lopers and operators in 
information technology 
operations
Thanks to this system of application  The platform is equipped with se- 31 E cosystem of businesses  E
that are accelerating the  n
interfaces,  Cerved  allows  a  select  mantic analysis algorithms which  v
digitisation and auto- ir
group of developers and Fintech31 to  are the basis of the proprietary  mation of the banking  on
and financial system,  m
access its data for the purpose of cre- search engine SpazioDati (subsidiary  using innovative tech- e
n
ating new programs and services.  of the Cerved Group), which helps to  nologies that make the  t
system more efficient.
95