CERVED GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
find new B2B contacts and in just a  PARTNERSHIPS
few clicks allows: Cerved  continued  to  pursue  strate-
›  visualising Cerved data and those  gic partnerships in 2019 to integrate 
from third-party sources in real  specialised competences and know-
time; how, drawing from the development 
›  generating targeted lists of pros- capital of university research entities 
pects; and  start-ups.  Through  its  ongoing 
›  consulting addresses, contacts,  relationships  with  specialised  busi-
sites and social channels; nesses and an important community 
›  learning companies’ management,  of data scientists, programmers and 
corporate structure and economic/ consultants, the Group has improved 
financial data; its market position, successfully mas-
›  querying  the  entire  database  tering strategies that are part of the 
through keywords or website con- disruptive innovation era.
tent to find the companies you are 
looking for more easily. For example, the Cerved Data Driv-
en  Competition  was  implemented 
OPEN INNOVATION thanks to a partnership with the Fin-
tech District, an open community that 
Open Innovation is a paradigm that  aims to be the reference point for Ital-
enables Cerved to create greater val- ian Fintech, promoting collaboration, 
ue and be more competitive in the  networking and open innovation and 
marketplace  by  integrating  digi- facilitating the aggregation of Fintech 
tal talent into its staff, sponsoring  operators,  suppliers  of  technology 
competitions for start-ups, providing  and investors.
contributions to managed start-up 
accelerators  and  activating  initia- On 16 April 2019 the Grand Finale of 
tives aimed at identifying innovative  AI WorkLab 2.0 was held, the final 
start-ups to be assessed as potential  event  of  the  second  edition  of  the 
acquisition targets. The event Cerved  pre-acceleration  program  dedicated 
Next is a good example of open inno- to talent scouting and the develop-
vation. It is the largest annual event  ment of start-ups in the field of Arti-
organised by Cerved and is dedicated  ficial Intelligence, created by LVenture 
to data-driven economy and to digital  Group and LUISS EnLabs in partner-
transformation.  ship with American Express, Cerved, 
It is a unique opportunity to discuss  growITup,  Invitalia,  Sanofi  and  Sara 
the themes of big data, fintech, dig- Assicurazioni.
ital lending and artificial intelligence 
through demos and workshops held 
by experts from different sectors, with 
national and international experienc-
es.
The Product Development process
Cerved  operates  in  the  Busi- services and scores. The high quality 
ness-to-Business (B2B) area offering  of its offering delivers tangible results 
products and services that encompass  and an increase in competitiveness 
a broad offering of data, information,  to customers.
96