CERVED GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
the use of our credit solutions even  vision created in March 2019 with a 
easier, from crediting to recovery.  well-defined mission: “To allow client 
companies  to  improve  performance 
Important  projects  have  been  starting from data, developing their 
launched that will lead to the develop- markets and growing in terms of vol-
ment of solutions in the following ar- umes”.  Cerved  ON  is  dedicated  to 
eas and with the following objectives:  marketing services that the Group 
launches on the market by leveraging 
›  ESG  Solutions:  become  the  refer- its peculiarity: being the largest Ital-
ence provider for ESG assessments  ian data-driven company, capable of 
and ratings to SMEs;  obtaining, managing, processing and 
›  Subsidized Finance: support SMEs  making use of an immense wealth of 
in  the  process  of  obtaining subsi- information, drawing the maximum 
dised loans; value and putting it at the service 
›  Warning systems: be a benchmark  of customers with appropriate tools. 
for all economic operators who must  A new brand, but firmly built on con-
comply with the New Corporate Cri- solidated  know-how,  on  the  skills 
sis Regulations; of  well-established  actors  in  their 
›  Self-diagnosis: allow companies to  fields, and on a dedicated structure 
understand  how  to  improve  their  with over 200 professionals, 6 offices 
creditworthiness;  throughout Italy, 200 sectors covered 
›  Anti-Money  Laundering:  become  with analyses and reports and 2,300 
the  centralised  Italian  provider  of  references and success stories.
AML services. 
For the Banks channel, the develop- In 2019 the products “Target Coun-
200  ment of the two platforms Silos and  tries”  and  “Business  Predictor” 
industries  MonDo continued, the solution for as- were  renewed,  adding  content  and 
coveted sessing the persistence of conditions  increasing their appeal thanks to the 
that determine the credit. In partner- digitisation of their output. New prod-
2,300  ship  with  a  specialist  in  the  sector,  ucts have also been created to meet 
Cerved has made its anti-money laun- the internationalisation needs of cus-
success 
dering offer even more complete to  tomers, such as the Foreign scout-
stories
adequately respond to current legis- ing product. Lastly, project solutions 
lation. were brought together (Customer Sat-
  isfaction and Company mapping) to 
MARKETING SOLUTIONS simplify implementation and reduce 
go to market lead times. 
The  Group’s  core  is  data  combined 
with  the  specialisation  of  vertical  CREDIT MANAGEMENT
players which have become part of 
the project with a path of acquisitions  In relation to credit management ser-
geared towards excellence: from Pay- vices, the changes developed in 2019 
Click  (digital  performance  market- concerned:
ing) to SpazioDati (smart data), from 
Bauciweb  (web  monitoring)  to  Pro  ›  entry into the market of credit 
Web Consulting (SEO33, CRO34 and web  management for the public ad-
33  Search Engine  analytics). A virtuous synergy that has  ministration;
Optimization. Intended 
as all those activities  made it possible to compose a unique  ›  launch of Recoverability Assess-
aimed at improving 
the crawling, indexing  integrated offer on the market able  ment, a new service to assess 
and positioning of  to cover the entire end-to-end value  troubled loans for the purpose of 
information or content 
present on a website; chain, from data to action: B2B Mar- activating judicial proceedings;
34  Conversion Rate  keting, Performance, Market Analysis  ›  introduction of Collection Score, a 
Optimization. 
Systematic  and CX Transformation. solution designed for differentiated 
improvement of the 
processes that allow a  recovery based on the type of debt 
website to transform  Cerved ON is the new business di- and debtor, which highlights the po-
users into customers
98