CERVED GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019
to understand the total cost of the  credit  management  always  takes 
product/service  purchased.  The  place with the aim of embarking on 
price offer documents must con- a path of dialogue with the debt-
tain clear indications of the condi- or aimed at fully understanding the 
tions of payment, the nature of any  causes of insolvency and identifying 
other form of additional expendi- possible solutions. The activity is car-
ture and, if possible, the amount of  ried out while respecting the dignity 
these expenses. and honourability of the debtor and 
ensuring that agents behave in a way 
4
 Respect for privacy and personal  that does not create embarrassment 
data protection or generate pressure, for example by 
When  collecting  personal  data  using false titles or threatening tones, 
from individuals, Cerved pays par- by proposing unreal or unenforceable 
ticular attention to respecting and  consequences in the specific case or 
protecting their privacy, respect- by qualifying themselves as officials 
ing the relevant rules and regula- reporting directly to the Client/Cred-
tions  as  well  as  internal  policies  itor. The person responsible for the 
and  procedures.  It  is  forbidden  activity must not disclose the content 
to  use  faxes,  emails,  automatic  of the cases entrusted to third par-
call systems and other electronic  ties  and/or  use  what  he/she  learns 
means of communication for the  for personal purposes. In 2019, there 
purpose of disseminating promo- were no cases of non-compliance with 
tional material if not with the most  the  regulations  and/or  self-regula-
scrupulous respect for privacy leg- tion codes regarding information on 
islation. services, nor with regulations and/or 
voluntary codes relating to marketing 
5Ethical Conduct activities (including advertising).
Verification that the form of con-
tracts is simple, clear and com- LISTENING TO CUSTOMERS 
plete, avoiding the use of any de- AND EFFICIENTLY MANAGING 
ceptive and/or incorrect practices,  COMPLAINTS
however carried out.
Cerved pays the utmost attention to 
6Social responsibility the  prevention  and  resolution  of 
Marketing  communications  must  any  problems  that  could  affect  its 
respect human dignity and must  four main stakeholders, i.e., end cus-
not  incite  or  tolerate  any  form  tomers (the filers of the complaints), 
of  discrimination,  including  that  consumer  associations,  protection 
based on ethnic or national origin,  and  oversight  authorities  and  inter-
religion, sex, age, disability or sex- mediate customers, namely the buy-
ual orientation. ers  of  Credit  Management  services 
and Business Information products.
As for the Credit Collection activity,  Through complaint resolution, Cerved 
Cerved  Credit  Management  Group  identifies area where improvement is 
has adopted a Code of Conduct for  possible  and  implements  corrective 
credit  recovery  through  which  it  is  actions. This issue impacts all process-
committed,  and  commits  its  associ- es within the organisation: improve-
ates, to respect consumer rights and  ment objectives can indeed be appli-
human rights. In line with the rules  cable to any Group unit, ensuring fair 
established in the UNIREC (National  and transparent transactions with 
Union for Credit Protection Compa- all customers. 
nies) Code of Conduct for Credit Man-
agement  and  Protection  Processes,  For the Credit Management and Busi-
the Group has dedicated a section of  ness Information areas, the process 
its Human Rights Policy to this activity.  for receiving and resolving written 
Cerved is committed to ensuring that  complaints includes:
100