 
 
Fundamental areas of our social responsibility 
 
Governance 
We interpret governance as a fundamental issue on which to act, also to increase the Company's 
ability to behave in a socially responsible way. We have provided ourselves with processes and 
tools that allow us to integrate the principles of social responsibility into our business strategies. 
The internal decision-making process is guided by rules that guarantee transparency, clear 
responsibilities, involvement and the traceability of information. 
The Charter of Values and the Code of Ethics guide the behaviour of the Company and of those who 
work on our behalf, creating an environment in which visions and principles are shared. 
We promote an organizational culture oriented towards Social Responsibility with initiatives of 
prorogation, awareness and internal involvement. 
 
Human rights 
In the performance of our activities and in our operating context, we are committed to respecting 
human rights, which are also recognized in our Code of Ethics, based on the principles expressed 
in  the  United  Nations  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  in  the  Conventions  of  the 
International Labour Organization (ILO), in the OECD guidelines and in the European Union’s 
Charter of Fundamental Rights. 
Within our sphere of influence, we are committed to protecting human rights in the management 
of people, relations with suppliers and aspects relating to the sale and distribution of products, 
taking into account the Company’s specific characteristics. We create systems for personal safety, 
we guarantee the protection of military personnel, and we protect the public against possible 
threats. In this context, we respect human rights by acting in accordance with the provisions of 
the national and international regulations that discipline the sector. 
Furthermore, in our capacity as an employer, in our operations we recognise as an essential value 
the protection and promotion of workers’ rights, and we also guarantee the right to the personal data 
protection and to informational self-determination. 
 
Relationships and working conditions 
People represent the most important asset for the pursuit of excellence and the achievement of 
success. 
In  employment  relationships,  we  encourage  the  establishment  of  positive  and  lasting 
relationships, we guarantee equal opportunities and fair treatment for all workers and we condemn 
all forms of discrimination of any kind. Aware that our choices influence the quality of life of the 
workers and their families, we ensure working conditions that comply with the standards of 
reference, we comply with the provisions of collective agreements, and we guarantee the workers’ 
safety, health and physical, mental and social well-being. 
We also make corporate welfare tools available to people which also imply better conditions than 
those provided for by law and by the national collective labour agreement. 
In the management of human resources, we are guided by principles of sharing and involvement, 
creating areas for socialising and strengthening the sense of belonging. 
We build the future by investing in the people who work in the Company; we plan paths of 
development for them and we enhance their skills to allow them to develop their full potential. 
 
   
20 
 