Our contribution to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development
The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is an action program for people, the planet and 
prosperity, signed in September 2015 by the governments of the 193 UN member countries. It
contains 17 Sustainable Development Goals, SDGs - and has a total of 169 milestones. The
pursuit  of  these  objectives  and  the  achievement  of  the  related  goals  depends  on  the 
responsibility and contribution of all the members of the Company. Aware that it is not possible
to  disregard  the  commitment  of  the  institutions,  of  civil  society,  of  non-governmental 
organizations (NGOs) and of businesses, we contribute to achieving 4 of the 17 sustainable
development goals.
Goal 4
To ensure inclusive and equitable quality education
and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all
Elettronica’s contribution: we establish collaboration with universities, schools and other
organizations, aimed at developing and transferring scientific and technological skills for men
and women.
Goal 8
To promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable
economic growth, full and productive employment
and decent work for all
Elettronica’s contribution: with its own business, it supports economic growth, it produces
innovation and generates technological progress. As an employer, Elettronica protects the 
right to work and promotes a healthy and safe working environment for all.
Goal 9
To build resilient infrastructure, and to promote
inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster 
innovation.
Elettronica’s contribution: it invests in research by moving forwards the frontier of innovation
and improving the technological capabilities of the industrial sector in which it operates. 
It offers its employees stimulating opportunities in the field of research and technological 
development.
Goal 12
Ensure sustainable production and consumption
patterns
Elettronica’s contribution: it pays attention to the management of the water resources, it 
puts in practice energy efficiency initiatives, it reduces emissions and paper consumption, it 
uses renewable sources whenever possible and it does not use substances that are harmful 
to the environment.
3232