 
All the issues indicated in the matrix are important for our Company and are the subject of attention 
and targeted actions. The issues that our stakeholders consider high priority issues become material 
issues to which we will give greater attention not only as regards reporting, but also as regards 
design and investments: 
The “Production of Innovation” represents the cornerstone of the Company’s business: by its 
constant straining towards innovation, Elettronica can offer cutting-edge technological solutions, to 
meet  customer  needs  and  to  constantly  increase  levels  of  safety,  efficiency  and  product 
effectiveness. A production process that involves and creates value also for other stakeholders, 
such as suppliers, universities and research centres, which are given the opportunity to develop and 
experiment innovative ideas, generating an increase in know-how for all the protagonists of the 
innovation process. Through the constant drive to innovate and collaborate with other players, 
Elettronica also contributes to the development of innovation in our country. 
For Elettronica the “Promotion of Innovation” also represents a qualifying element of its role as an 
innovative company: to stimulate innovation both within the Company and in the production system 
is a determining factor for generating an innovation ecosystem capable of responding to the 
challenges of global change, also through the involvement of the players of the education-training 
system, promoting “Centres of competence” to encourage the popularity of STEM subjects among 
younger people and to create skills in innovation pioneering disciplines. 
For  the  sector  in  which  Elettronica  operates,  “Compliance  product  marketing  regulations” 
becomes an essential element to guarantee its reliability, to protect the country's credibility, for public 
safety and the safety of military personnel and civilians. The implementation of the “Governmental 
Security and Trade Compliance Management System” guarantees that the Company constantly 
checks  and  monitors  compliance  with  international  and  national  standards,  to  protect  all  the 
stakeholders involved. 
Elettronica’s very nature involves reliability and correctness: “Responsibility in business” is a 
corporate must that requires the sharing of value frameworks, of rules or conduct, of decision-
making  and  of management  procedures  and managerial  systems,  in  order to guarantee  the 
achievement of goals and the generation of value for the Company and for all its stakeholders. In 
addition,  operating  in  a  sector  of  national  interest  requires  attention  to  “Legality  and  anti-
corruption” issues, to encourage the healthy and lasting development of the Company and of the 
entire sector. The rules laid down and the management and control systems adopted prevent illegal 
acts to be committed. 
The management of the security management of corporate information and of the data processed, 
“ICT  Security  and  Privacy”,  allow  for  protecting  the  Company's  intellectual  capital  and  for 
guarantee the safety of civil society and of the state. 
The ability to innovate and guarantee quality, without ever losing sight of reliability and correctness, 
is also the result of a strategic and management approach which includes employees, customers 
and suppliers: careful and constant “Enhancement of skills”, which Elettronica places at the centre 
of its Human Resources management and development policies; “Attention to customers”, from 
the design and implementation of technological solutions and systems, to assistance in the use of 
the products; the “Enhancement of the supply chain” aimed at promoting suppliers’ growth, 
sustainability and continuous improvement. 
The awareness of the role that Elettronica plays in terms of the economic development of its sector 
and of the innovation and production ecosystem is strictly linked to awareness of the social and 
environmental impact that its decisions and actions generate on the stakeholders and on the territory 
in which it operates. Therefore, the formalisation of a “CSR Strategy” represents a natural step 
forward for the Company in its orientation towards Social Responsibility, which has always been 
present in the values and principles that inspire its corporate action. An evolution that pushes the 
Company to an ever greater integration of Social Responsibility principles and issues within its 
strategies, objectives and business activities. 
Social Responsibility integration and internalisation also move from the creation of a widespread 
“CSR mentality” within the Company, but also among its stakeholders. 
   
25 
 