 
During these meetings, the main emerging critical issues are examined together with the 
General Management and the solutions necessary to achieve the corporate objectives are 
shared. Each department director then has the task of communicating the results of the GMM 
discussions to their collaborators, so that a cascade process can be carried out and the 
information reaches all personnel. 
 
System of delegations for certain issues 
With  regard  to  Governmental  Security,  Safety,  Information  Security,  Privacy  and  Quality, 
Elettronica, by a system of delegations to specific corporate figures, guarantees operations also 
externally and governance in line with Company policies. 
 
Procedures for the prevention of illicit acts 
In order to encourage behaviour based on the values and principles laid down in the Code of 
Ethics, specific clauses focussing on integrity and on respect for the Company's Code of Ethics 
are included in contracts and agreements with suppliers and partners. 
With regard to relations with foreign market agents, the criteria for choosing and managing the 
relationship with the professionals in charge of promoting the business in a specific foreign 
territory have been defined. The selection and management of the relationship guarantee the 
professional attitude, the competence and the integrity of the behaviour of the professionals of 
which the Company wishes to take avail. 
 
Accounting management and tax transparency 
In this sphere, the rules and procedures are aimed at: 
•  guaranteeing all stakeholders of correct accounting and correct data on tax returns 
•  ensuring the protection of the assets by adequate control procedures 
 
Governmental Security and Trade Compliance Management System (GS&TC) 
The System guarantees compliance with the legislation on the management of classified 
information for Governmental Security (the security of the nation, NATO, EU and OCCAR and 
the other countries with which contractual agreements have been established) as well as with 
the legislation concerning the offer, supply and handling of both military (Munition Goods) and 
Dual Use (Dual Use Goods) materials, thus contributing to the protection of national security 
and of the corporate assets. The system is followed in all business processes including, for 
example,  those  dedicated  to  commercial  opportunities  and  to  product  development  and 
implementation as regards the rules relative to the import, export and transit of armament 
materials, to dual use and certain technologies subject to government restrictions, whether 
classified or not. 
Through  the  full  recognition  that  all  products  belong  to  the  aforementioned  categories 
(armaments, dual use and civil), even in the planning stage, the System allows for intercepting 
any “non-conformities” and for taking prompt action before they occur and before they become 
a breach of the standards. At the basis of a correct implementation of the System, there is 
certainly the knowledge and awareness of its importance on the part of all the actors involved. 
For this reason, Elettronica periodically organizes information and training sessions for its 
personnel, sometimes also open to external subjects.   
34 
 