 
Risk Management 
This is a structured process for assessing events that can compromise or favour the success of 
corporate projects. The aim is to stimulate those involved to consider the sources of risk and the 
potential effects, and to then identify and put in place appropriate action to counteract or to 
enhance the probability of their occurrence and the associated effects. In 2015, the Risk 
Management organizational unit was created, the tasks of which include spreading a common 
corporate mentality, in order to improve corporate economic results, customer satisfaction and 
the work atmosphere. As of January 2018, Risk Management has taken on an even more 
strategic role within the organization, becoming a new organizational department (Planning & 
Risk Management), in order to have greater operational independence compared to the other 
corporate departments and to ensure maximum objectivity in risk assessment. 
The Company manages and monitors 17 types of risk involving the examination of economic, 
financial, operational, social and environmental risks. Threats and opportunities are identified 
for each type of risk. In 2019, 90 threats were identified falling within 16 risk categories and 17 
opportunities involving 8 categories. The closing time for law enforcement actions in response 
to risk situations was 8 months compared to the set target of 10 months. 
 
Balanced Scorecard 
This represents the main strategic management tool by which the business vision can be viewed 
according to a coherent set of performance indicators. The indicators are divided according to 
four aspects: Results, Customers/Markets, Processes, Resources. Compared to the use of only 
economic-financial indicators, the Scorecard is a decidedly advanced tool which measures the 
way  in  which  the  Company,  by  achieving  individual  objectives,  creates  value  for  all  its 
stakeholders.  To  date  Elettronica  has  a  Corporate  BSC  and  a  BSC  for  each  business 
department. 
 
Sharing targets  Year 2019 
High performance KPI (target  25 (67.5%) 
reached or exceeded) 
Medium performance KPI  7 (19%) 
(target not reached, but tolerance level reached) 
Low performance KPI  5 (13.5%) 
(target not reached, and tolerance level not reached) 
 
Quality Management System (QMS) 
Elettronica has adopted a Quality Management System in order to meet the expectations and 
needs of the interested parties and to sustain its continuous pursuit of results. The process 
involves the entire Company and takes into account the needs of the various stakeholders: from 
Company personnel, to create a suitable work environment which also allows for a satisfactory 
private life, to the integration of Company processes and the management of the supply chain, 
up to the satisfaction of the end customer. All phases aim towards continuous improvement and 
technological innovation 
 
Analysis of    Orientation    Company    Resources    Procurement 
the context  towards the  organisation  management 
result  and processes 
         
.   
36 
 