 
Processes, systems and tools 
Developing and enhancing skills means putting everyone in a position in which they can best 
express their potential and to direct them in pursuit of corporate objectives and success. In 
Elettronica, the clarity and sharing of employee performance, as well as the alignment between 
corporate  and  individual  objectives,  become  central  aspects  in  a  responsible  process  of 
managing and developing people and skills. For this reason we have adopted processes for 
defining and assessing objectives and skills, based on the strong involvement of the employees 
and on creating awareness through self-assessment steps, all generated also thanks to the 
digital transformation of the human resources management process, which has allowed the 
integrated management of personnel planning, assessment, training and growth, making this 
process increasingly transparent and accessible to employees. The Performance Management 
System has the ultimate aim of guiding people towards the results expected by the Company, 
linking individual performance to wider business activities and giving relevance to the “cascade” 
assignment process. The process of assigning and assessing individual objectives, which 
derives from the definition of objectives at corporate and departmental level, through the 
Balanced Scorecard, involves two distinct steps, logical and temporal, in which the entire 
corporate population is involved. A first phase, Goal Setting, in which the manager assigns 
individual objectives to each recruit, and a second phase, Performance Appraisal, in which the 
formal evaluation of the results takes place in a meeting between manager and recruit. Always 
to involve the personnel in the achievement of the corporate objectives and to participate in the 
results, the result bonus, calculated on the basis of constantly monitored and verifiable indicators 
and parameters, is agreed together with the representative trade unions. An opportunity for 
workers to have evidence of the results of the Company’s performance and of their contribution 
to the achievement of the final goal. The bonus awarded, according to the worker’s preference, 
can also be converted into welfare benefits or spent on the goods and services available within 
the “Enjoy Life Time” Flexible Benefits Plan adopted by the Company, with the consequent tax 
benefits deriving from current legislation. 
 
 
Participation in Company results  2019 data 
average value of the result bonus  2718 
% amount of bonuses converted into welfare  17.2% 
No. of meetings with the representative trade union to 
monitor and identify corrective action in order to achieve  3 
results 
weight of the result bonus within the Total Reward Statement  5% 
 
 
The Performance Management process takes place with the digital support of the “MyHR” human 
resources management platform, through specific feedback and development meetings organized 
between the manager and the employee.  According to this logic of the all-round assessment of the 
contribution of each employee, the skills assessment process is supported by the assessment 
process of the results. Even before the direct manager’s assessment, the process involves the 
employee's self-assessment of his/her technical-professional and business skills. The purpose is to 
create a development plan that contains training courses, internal mobility and improvement action 
to  bridge  the  agreed  and  identified  skill  gaps.  Within  the  sphere  of  the  digital  platform,  the 
assessment  of  performance  and  skills  is  linked  to the training  courses  through the  Learning 
Management System, a digital module that allows the coordination of the entire corporate training    
47 
 