 
problems that arise in the innovation design phase, which aims to develop solutions that 
transcend the specific problem in itself to suggest practices that can lead to user-centred 
innovation, thus focusing on the needs and requests of the customers. 
 
 
 
Design Thinking 
 
 
 
 
  Define  Prototype 
 
 
 
 
Empathise  Design  Test 
 
 
 
 
Design Thinking draws on the experience and versatility of the designers to deal with strategic 
organizational planning with a less rigid perspective. 
The multidisciplinary nature of the approaches of this type of innovation design is a distinctive 
feature that makes it preferable to other more sectoral approaches that could represent a limit 
to the innovation itself. 
 
Design Thinking consists of 5 phases: 
 
1.  EMPHATHISE: What we are interested in 
2.  DEFINE: To define the objectives 
3.  DESIGN: What solution do I adopt 
4.  PROTOTYPE: How do I construct my solution 
5.  TEST: How do I check and improve my solution 
 
Downstream of the prototyping and testing phase, a peer review is carried out which defines the 
results  obtained,  and  a  gap  analysis  (what  is  missing  in  order  to  achieve  the  initial 
specifications). 
Successively the function/idea/architecture moves on into the hands of the Product Lines whose 
objective is the complete development (in terms of integration and industrialisation) of the idea 
in the direction of the final product, as defined in the Roadmap of the Strategic Technology Plan. 
The R&I department manages most of the Company's private ventures. It has a staff of 18 with 
skills in the engineering fields deemed to be key disciplines for the Company, and it has a 
specific laboratory to carry out the demonstrators’ tests developed. 
 
Partnerships with universities and research centres 
Collaboration with research institutions and university design centres is a qualifying element of 
our innovation process, which triggers a virtuous exchange both for the high value of knowledge 
and skills put in place by the partners, and for the opportunity that Elettronica provides to the 
world of research to develop innovative ideas and realize their potential by applying it to the 
corporate business. 
   
59 
 