 
The Competence Centre of Rome is also a guidance and training centre for companies, as 
well as giving support in the implementation of innovation projects, industrial research and 
experimental development. It focuses on the general aspects of Cyber security and its various 
specific applications: Electronic Warfare, e-health, automotive and space. In each of the listed 
fields, the systems are increasingly software-based and net-centric: the growing complexity 
that derives from systems makes it necessary to take into account spasmodic cyber security in 
order to increase the resilience of the systems and to protect the information with which they 
deal. 
 
Digital projects 
In 2017, we launched the Digital Transformation Strategic Plan, defining the IT architectures 
that will support the businesses of the future and the creation of the "Digital Farm". This project 
falls within the "Digital Transformation" IT plan launched in 2018 with the SCO & S - Smart 
Connected Operation & Service - project, and it represents a complex challenge as it will 
involve all Company departments and will lead, in a very short time, to profound changes in 
the working methods of Elettronica’s individual resources. 
The Strategic Setup of the Digital Transformation has identified a roadmap of 9 priority use 
cases that will be developed in the next three years (2020-2022). For 2020 three have been 
selected. 
The following Clusters will be the target of this project: 
 
1.  Clean Sheet & Should Cost - to increase the effectiveness of the execution of tenders and 
the negotiation of passive contracts and to improve Make-Buy decisions, through a fact-
based cost baseline 
2.  Digital Proposal Configurator - to enhance and accelerate the development of proposals 
to customers in consideration of the high engineering and complexity of the offers 
3.  Leads Management in Service - to promote the commercial excellence of Elettronica and 
to obtain new maintenance contracts by forecasting operational and maintenance needs on 
the installed products. 
 
Cluster 1 includes the development of the three use cases identified as priorities for 2020. 
Cluster 2 provides for the “Launch” of the Centre of Expertise (CoE), with the start of the 
capability building process of the resources involved and the processes of engaging the 
departments. 
Taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the National Industry 4.0 Plan, Elettronica has 
carried forward the following projects: 
 
•  Integration of product development and construction processes through the 
implementation of Concurrent and Simultaneous Engineering techniques (Virtual 
Platforms, High Level Synthesis, System Modelling) 
•  Adoption of a new technological architecture combining IT (Information Technology) and 
OT (Operational Technology) through: 
−  cross-connections of systems (SAP, PLM, MES) and devices (PC, sensors, hololens, 
PLC) 
−  incorporation of edge computing solutions for connectivity, cpu, and storage 
−  addition of intelligence and machine learning algorithms. 
•  Creation of its own iSOC (Intelligent Security Operation Centre) dedicated to internal cyber 
security and the needs of the customers of the subsidiary CY4GATE, featuring a fifth 
generation solution that combines human intelligence and information technology to support 
and enhance human capabilities and CY4GATE products (RTA and DISINT). 
   
61 
 