 
The dissemination and stimulation of knowledge and the acquisition of STEM skills: 
Schools and universities 
Elettronica’s know-how is a very precious asset for the Company and for the territory in which it 
operates. As a company, Elettronica has relationships and collaboration agreements with the 
main universities and research centres in the area. 
These include the Tor Vergata University of Rome, with which Elettronica signed a collaboration 
agreement in 2018 for technical-scientific and training activities. The collaboration is aimed at 
generating excellence in the field of research and training on frontier issues, looking towards 
internationalisation while remaining strongly linked to the economic and productive context of 
the  territory.  Pursuant  to  the  agreement,  Elettronica  is  engaged  in  joint  Research  and 
Development projects, in the diffusion of scientific and technological culture in the area, in 
meetings with academic start-ups, in support activities for the execution of these issues and in 
the organisation of master and training courses. 
To facilitate exchange and interaction between schools, universities and the world of work, 
Elettronica has also initiated alternating school-work courses and curricular and extracurricular 
training with local institutions. 
The goal is to facilitate the understanding of a modernly organized industrial company, through 
active experimentation on specific projects or tasks, aimed at making the knowledge acquired 
during the course of studies applicable. The trainees at Elettronica are supervised by expert 
tutors and have the chance to interact with various corporate counterparties, in order to acquire 
transversal skills in their field of competence and to be able to consolidate or direct their 
motivation and interests in specific areas. 
 
Possibility of interaction with the business world  2019 data 
Universities involved  8 
Curricular training periods  8 
Extra-curricular training   12 
Trainees employed by ELT  25% 
Alternating study-work courses held  4 
 
The Women4Cyber project: including and enhancing differences 
The Elettronica Director General Domitilla Benigni, D.Eng. is a member of the Women4Cyber 
Council, a recent initiative of the ECSO - European Cyber Security Organization - aimed at 
promoting greater gender inclusiveness in the cyber sector. 
One of the main objectives is to increase women's access to training on these issues, to achieve 
which Elettronica financed a tender from the LUISS University in 2019 for a full exemption 
scholarship intended for a candidate of the Second Level University Master’s Degree course in 
Cyber security: public policies, regulations and management. 
   
65 
 