 
 
6 
Supply chain 
Management 
 
 
 
Suppliers represent one of the most important elements of our business model:   the 
imperative is to build relationships based on principles of transparency, integrity and 
trust. 
 
Suppliers are normally classified according to the object and use of the supply within the 
Company's value chain. They are of two kinds: Direct Suppliers and Indirect Suppliers. 
Direct Suppliers are those who provide materials and services necessary to design and 
manufacture the Elettronica product, which the Company sells to its own customers. Therefore 
they are supplies that directly contribute to the production of the Company's output. 
On the other hand, we speak of Indirect Supplies when the objects of the supply, whether 
materials or services, are necessary to guarantee the functioning of the organization but do not 
directly enter the Company's production cycle. 
Elettronica’s supplier base is very varied and is made up of a very large number of companies. 
In the past five years we have entered into contracts with more than 1,100 different 
companies. Obviously most of these were non-recurring supplies. 
In particular, from 2015 to today, we have made purchases of indirect-type supplies from 
approximately 900 different companies, but supplies have been purchased more than five times 
from only 300. We can therefore say that we have about 300 Indirect suppliers with whom 
we collaborate regularly. 
For Direct supplies, however, the situation is very different: the number of suppliers with which 
we have collaborated in the last five years slightly exceeds two hundred and, of these, 163 are 
listed in our Suppliers Register, and can therefore be considered usual suppliers. In view of the 
impact of direct supplies on Elettronica’s products, it is necessary to closely monitor the work of 
these suppliers and ensure their high level of quality which must be aligned with the Company's 
standards. This is the reason for keeping a Suppliers Register for such supplies, which is nothing 
more than the list of suppliers "Authorized" to operate in the respective supply areas. The list is 
accompanied by all the necessary information relating to these enterprises, which is used to 
ensure correct monitoring, including the 
 third-party  certifications,  the  authorisation  to  operate  within  specific  special  production 
processes and so on. 
Lastly, with regard to Direct supplies, we divide the suppliers according to object to be supplied 
into three macro-groups: Materials, Performance and Intellectual Capital. The table below 
shows the data relative to the orders issued (in millions of Euro) and the number of suppliers 
relating to last year (2019). 
Intellectual Capital suppliers are those who intervene during the product development phase in 
support of Engineering, therefore they are consultancy services that mainly pertain to the areas 
of software development, mechanical design and electronic design. 
   
66 
 