 
In almost 70 years of existence, we have never lost sight of our key goal: to satisfy the customer 
from the viewpoint of operating (providing a solution in line with his needs), of knowledge 
(training  him  to  obtain  the  maximum  possible  from  what  he  has  purchased),  of  support 
(guaranteeing a high operational availability of the system), of costs (designing the system with 
the  aim  of  containing  operating  and  logistics  costs)  and  of  evolution  (developing  open 
architectural solutions, capable of being technologically updated to cater for the evolution of the 
operational  requirement  and  customer  needs  over  time).  In  a  company  of  very  high 
technological innovation such as Elettronica, this philosophy becomes a determining factor for 
the consolidation of European and world leadership. It is the only way to bring together the real 
operational requirement of the customer (which does not always coincide with the operational 
needs described in the documents) and a solution perfectly suited to the reality of the enterprise 
in which it will operate, avoiding unnecessary functions and technologies that are not yet mature, 
or that are unreliable or highly expensive. 
For Elettronica, each customer has its own identity and specific nature: our commitment is to 
know how to adapt and structure following the customer’s formal and cultural processes. 
This effort is increasingly decisive and complex since foreign markets are not only looking for 
quality products, but increasingly wish to receive the know-how that represents the concrete 
tool for the growth of their national technological sovereignty. 
Countries therefore require an increasingly articulated, structured and complex commitment, 
featuring Offset solutions, such as co-production, direct investments and technology transfers 
in their country, which can even reach 100% of the contract value, thus requiring a total return 
on  their  financial  investment,  equal  to  the  full  value  of  the  contract  itself. We  keep  our 
concentration on partnerships high also at national level and in our work we exploit synergy with 
the Customer in different ways: starting from the collaboration during the development of a new 
technological solution to the sharing of important assessments based on experience in the field, 
to joint participation (Country System), to operational tests on new advanced technological 
solutions organized within NATO, and up to support in marketing to foreign customers and the 
use, through special agreements, of test ranges owned by the national Armed Force, for tests 
and demos. In addition, in order to better support the business with the customer, we offer, 
together with our systems, specific training and training services, with simulators and equipment 
that can ensure full operational autonomy. For this purpose, we have created our EW Academy 
which includes the Battle Lab laboratory, where complex scenarios suitable for multi-role 
operational training can be simulated, to provide various levels of training by means of a 
complete simulation of the scenario in which the Customer will operate. 
 
 
 
EW Academy – Customer training  2019 data 
No. of courses  16 
No. of programmes  10 
No. of weeks training given  36 
No. of students  206 
 
Our training and simulation centre is a very important tool for mastering all aspects of the EW 
domain. In the Academy programme, Elettronica plays the role of Trusted Advisor, providing the 
tools and knowledge to prepare the trainers, as well as the end users of the systems. To this 
end, a shared path is constructed so that the customer, by achieving his training objectives, 
reaches full autonomy. 
   
76 
 