 
Waste is disposed of according to the provisions of the law, taking avail of companies specialised 
in the recovery and treatment of special wastes. We also plan to put in place an end-of-life 
management of the products. This initiative will take time to implement, in view of the complex 
and stringent requirements imposed for industrial safety issues. 
 
8.3 
SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY 
 
We  promote  sustainable  mobility  in  order  to  contribute  to  the  reduction  of 
emissions and to the well-being of our employees and the people who live in the 
area in which we operate. 
 
Green mobility 
In line with the Rome 2024 Plan which provides for mobility without diesel fuelled vehicles, 
Elettronica is preparing green mobility solutions by progressively reconverting the Company car 
fleet and supporting the green mobility of its employees. 
 
Sustainable car fleet  2019 data 
Electric cars  3 
Hybrid cars  8 
 
Elettronica fosters a decreased use of private cars on the part of employees by offering a site 
dedicated to car pooling - ComuniCar - on the Company Intranet, which allows them to identify 
colleagues who live near them and to arrange for lifts with one another. 
 
Mobility in the Tiburtina industrial area 
Elettronica has adhered to the "sustainable Tiburtina" project - promoted by Unindustria (Union 
of Industrialists and Companies of Rome, Frosinone, Latina, Rieti, Viterbo) and sponsored by 
Roma Capitale - aimed at improving access to the Tiburtina industrial area, one of the main 
production areas not only in Rome, but of Central Italy as a whole. 
The Company agrees with the priority given to the road system and the need to take into account 
the needs of stakeholders in terms of: 
 
•  the psycho-physical well-being of the people who live and work there 
•  the competitiveness of the companies that operate there 
•  the territory's ability to attract new businesses 
 
The project foresees an initial phase of analysis of the travel involved and the consequent 
identification of problems, in terms of shortages of services, infrastructural deficits or critical 
issues  in  the  levels  of  security  and  propriety.  Elettronica  has  contributed  by  given  the 
questionnaire to all its employees, which had a response rate of 40%. The project will continue 
with a second phase to identify the action to be taken. In turn, Elettronica is a stakeholder of 
associations and bodies with which it has active collaboration agreements, aimed at improving 
the quality of the life of people and the community. 
   
82 
 