 
Methodological note 
This report has been drawn up in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. 
With the 2019 social responsibility and sustainability report, Elettronica takes a further step 
forward along the continuous improvement of its social reporting and sustainability process: it 
has moved from the use of GRI Standards as an inspiration and guideline to its use as a set of 
indications - relative to methods and disclosure - which must be respected. 
The 2019 Social Responsibility Report is the first electronic sustainability report drawn up in 
accordance with the GRI Standards.  The information and data given meet the mandatory 
indications and disclosures of the Core option and take into account the material issues declared 
by the Company.  For these data, the values of the year 2019 have been reported and, when 
available, the values of the three-year period 2017-2019.  Further data and information have 
also been reported, both in relation to material issues, and in relation to issues not declared as 
material but in any case supervised by the Company. The additional data and information have 
been defined and reported taking into account the indications provided by the relevant GRI 
disclosures, based on a reporting process that the Company has followed for the past four years. 
This process has made it possible to develop, through a benchmarking activity, a dashboard of 
information and indicators thanks to the involvement of a group of managers and employees, 
with the analysis of the stakeholders’ possible information expectations and of the expectations 
of the suppliers directly detected. 
The period of reference of this report is 2019 (calendar year) in compliance with the annual basis 
chosen for the reporting frequency. 
The scope of the social responsibility and sustainability report coincides with that of the 
consolidated financial statements of Elettronica S.p.A. at 31 December 2019, for the financial 
statement data relating only to Elettronica S.p.A, since the subsidiaries Elt GmbH and CY4Gate 
are not included in the social responsibility and sustainability report. 
 
The process for defining the contents of the report 
Elettronica  started  the  reporting  process  and  defined  the  contents  of  the  2019  report  in 
compliance with GRI 101: Reporting principles 2016. More specifically, the report was drawn up 
in accordance with the principle of: 
 
•  the inclusion of the Stakeholders: in 2016 Elettronica began the careful mapping and 
analysis of its stakeholders, which it has periodically updated. The stakeholders were 
identified by means of a vast network of representatives of the corporate functions. Thanks 
to the knowledge and experience of the members of the aforementioned network, it was 
possible to carry out the following activities: 
 
1.  the construction of the stakeholder map 
2.  the definition of the degree of interest and influence of each stakeholder with respect to the 
Elettronica's  activities/processes  and,  in  this  way,  to  proceed  to  identify  the  key 
stakeholders for each social responsibility issue and for the relevant specific aspects that 
are significant for Elettronica; 
3.  the launch of a first survey on the channels and tools used by the Company to relate to 
stakeholders, taking into account the nature and intensity of the relationship, and the 
stakeholders’ characteristics. 
4.  the explanation of the perception of Elettronica as regards their requirements, expectations 
and information needs, through the identification of Critical Success Factors (relevant 
measurement indices of the specific expectations of the stakeholders). 
5.  the identification of adequate performance indicators, in addition to those indicated by the 
GRI disclosure.   
83 
 