 
The process continued in 2017 and 2018 and, thanks to the involvement of the corporate 
departments,  the  persistent  validity  of  the  mapping  and  analysis  already  conducted  was 
checked and revised when necessary, also on the level of depth and breadth. 
In 2019, the reporting process was fully developed and it was possible the direct involvement of 
the stakeholders in the social reporting process had become possible. 
Among the key stakeholders identified, it was decided to involve Suppliers, as strategic subjects 
for Elettronica in the creation of value, taking into account the relevance of the supply chain in 
the areas which influenced Social Responsibility. 
The Suppliers were involved in two stages: the first with a questionnaire sent to a representative 
sample of suppliers; the second with the creation of a workshop in which two focus groups were 
conducted. 
The questionnaire allowed: 
 
1.  to investigate the awareness of social responsibility in the Elettronica supply chain 
2.  to highlight the relevance for suppliers with regard to the various social responsibility issues 
reported by Elettronica in the 2018 Social Report 
3.  The focus groups allowed: 
•  light to be shed on the suppliers’ viewpoint regarding the negative risks/impact and 
the positive opportunities/impact for them deriving from Elettronica's will to address 
and manage social responsibility issues 
•  to identify further indications for the improvement of the reporting process 
•  the stakeholders’ to directly express their requirements, expectations and information 
needs. 
 
Brief indications on the feedback that emerged from the involvement of the suppliers can be 
found in paragraphs 6.1 and 6.2 of the report. 
 
•  Sustainability context: in presenting the economic, social and environmental performance 
of the organization in the broader context of sustainability, Elettronica has examined the 
macro-issues relevant to the sector in which the Company operates, taking into account the 
actions and goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development to which it can make 
its contribution in terms of the economic, social and environmental impact generated. 
 
•  Materiality: In the preparation of this report, Elettronica has adopted the principle of 
materiality. Building on the experience gained in previous reporting cycles (in terms of the 
awareness  of  its  impact,  the  emergence  of  its  dimensions  and  the  areas  of  Social 
Responsibility, and clarification of the stakeholders’ needs and expectations), consistent 
with the Company’s main values, policies and strategies, taking into account the indications 
of the ISO 26000:2010 Guide to Social Responsibility, as prescribed in the 2030 Agenda 
on Sustainable Development, and the results of a benchmarking activity, and thanks to the 
direct contribution of the Company's top management and its supply chain, Elettronica has 
defined its own material issues, i.e. those considered as priorities - among all the relevant 
accountable issues - inasmuch as they can reflect the Company’s economic, environmental 
and social impact and can influence the stakeholders’ decisions. From an operational point 
of view, the material issues emerged through the construction of a matrix that brought 
together the perspective of the stakeholders and that of the Company. In a first phase, a 
survey of the macro-issues relevant to the sector in which the Company operates was 
carried out as well as benchmarking in respect of similar companies, using as a guide the 
indications provided by ISO 26000:2010 on the fundamental issues of Social Responsibility. 
 
For each relevant issue identified, we proceeded by comparing the stakeholders’ perspective 
with the Company’s perspective. The stakeholders’ perspective was detected in two different 
ways: 
   
84 
 