 
Specifically, the main organisational projects, which also led to the recruitment of new resources from the 
market, involved: 
▪  setting up a Commercial Department in the Commercial/Business Development area to scale up 
business development, strategic marketing, commercial planning and bidding assistance processes; 
▪  the Global Supply Chain Department, which combines the Procurement Department and the Plant & 
Equipment Department optimising know-how and operating synergies along the supply chain to facilitate 
projects more effectively and efficiently; 
▪  the HR, Organisation and Systems Department to focus on organisational development and bolstering 
its activities to enhance the Group; 
▪  the Global Operations Department, due to the additional streamlining of the geographical segments in 
line with the new direction of the Group’s business. 
The changes in the organisational model were flanked by a review of internal processes and innovation for the 
purposes of ongoing improvement and operating effectiveness and efficiency.  
Specifically, the “Performance Dialogue” project is up and running to ensure transparent and consistent key 
objectives/priorities and make the assistance provided by all the functions for achievement of contract objectives 
more efficient. This includes scheduling regular project performance review meetings at various internal levels, 
using standardised tools and reports to ensure consistent reporting of the progress of all the Group’s projects 
and identify any appropriate improvement and/or recovery actions. This project covered the Group’s entire 
contract portfolio over the course of 2019.  
The Company continued its ongoing digitalisation project as described in the relevant paragraph of the 
Innovation, research and development section.  
The Company has continued to fine-tune its Knowledge Management Programme as part of its drive to improve 
process efficiency and create value by harnessing and re-deploying experience gained in the field. The 
programme is designed to optimise the knowledge-sharing tools and methods and access to specialist expertise.  
It also continued to encourage its subsidiaries to apply organisational and process best practices as part of its 
drive to steadily disseminate and standardise the organisational models and operating methods at group level. 
This approach allows for the optimisation of internal processes by promoting the parent’s competence centres’ 
role in communicating guidelines, recommendations and specialist assistance. 
Specifically, Lane has aligned its processes and organisation with the Company’s standards with regards to the: 
-  Technical Department (Engineering and Bidding Office); 
-  Procurement; 
-  HR & Organisation.  
Finally, the Company tweaked and supplemented its procedures as part of its project for ongoing improvement 
of its organisation and to reflect changes in the legislative framework. It wrote and distributed a Compliance 
Handbook to all the Group’s operating units after which it monitored the effective application of procedures 
102 