 
Construction techniques 
Salini Impregilo best expresses its innovative potential in this area. One of its most significant projects 
undertaken in the 2017-2019 period is the study of the boring of a tunnel using pressure boring technology 
carried out to develop a bid for a section of the Naples - Bari high capacity railway line in Italy. The project 
required improved technical solutions to resolve interference with the water table inside the tunnel, especially 
as regards the temporary works to allow boring inside the tunnel without water. The Company opted for an 
innovative but efficient and safe solution, able to guarantee dry boring in simple, repetitive and expeditious 
executive stages, eliminating the risk of any disturbance to the existing structures and the water table.  
Another interesting research project, developed as part of the environmental restoration project of the Matanza-
Riachuelo catchment basin in Argentina was the development of a new method to install vertical pipes 
underwater, called the riser concept. This solution, for which Salini Impregilo has filed a patent application, 
involves installing vertical pipes from the bottom up, working inside a tunnel built on the bed of a water body 
when there are soft ground formations. Before this innovative equipment, only vertical bottom-up excavation 
methods in rocky material existed, which were not possible in underwater conditions. Significant offshore work 
and seaworks were necessary for these projects, working from the top down, which significantly lengthened the 
contract times and complexity due to the numerous external factors, especially weather and navigation 
conditions. The new riser concept technique almost completely eliminates the seaworks as it allows the pipes 
to be laid directly inside an undersea tunnel with substantial improvements in terms of simplifying construction 
and the reduction in the number of offshore processing activities and works, optimised costs during the 
construction and operating stages, strong construction planning and timelines, elimination of interference with 
shipping, reduction of the overall environmental impact and fewer construction risks. 
Another noteworthy project is the study of experimental and numerical models to assist the design and testing 
of special works like the iconic Western Station of the Riyadh Metro the Group is building in Saudi Arabia. This 
study dealt with wind dynamics and the vulnerability of special iconic structures to the wind (large irregular 
shaped roofs and canopies) using numerical models developed internally by the design challenge team and as 
partnerships with external research centres. Together with the Milan Polytechnic, the team carried out trials in 
the wind tunnel as well as dynamics analyses on software developed specifically by the University, without 
parallel on the market. The study enabled the Company to acquire new skills in the field of non-conventional 
structures’ reaction to wind (which are not fully covered by the current international regulations) and to hone its 
knowledge and awareness of the importance of adopting a non-conventional approach to the dynamic factors 
of special structures, especially given the increased frequency of extreme weather events. 
The Group has also decided to reengineer its production processes, covering both its normal work site activities 
and the main support activities. This lean construction process is the construction sector’s take on the lean 
104 