 
production principles and involves focusing on operating planning and an analysis of the KPIs when preparing 
bids. 
Digitalisation 
These projects apply to many areas. They entail the development of innovative tools that use artificial 
intelligence (AI) and the Internet of Things (IoT) to analyse and share data. The tools facilitate the processing of 
big data with summarised and detailed outputs available in real time. Digital innovation is essential to Salini 
Impregilo’s  competitive  edge  in  a  world  undergoing  continual  technological  transformation.  In  2019,  it 
implemented new applications to assist its day-to-day business, including: 
-  an integrated commercial and bidding data and information flows management system  to provide better 
assistance with strategic decisions and the traceability and security of information; 
-  processes and systems for electronic signatures in documents; 
-  digital procurement solutions to make the management of purchase requests and formalisation of 
supplier contracts more efficient; 
-  a HR process digitalisation project to introduce technological best practices for the day-to-day activities 
of the HR and organisation department.  
Virtual reality 
Management deemed it strategic to develop BIM (Building Information Modeling) tools to guarantee top service 
quality levels and promote the sector’s high level of competition and technological innovation to the market. In 
order to gain a greater share of international markets and to expand its global footprint, the Company has rolled 
out its first ever internal project to develop more innovative BIM tools than those available on the market.  
Rolled out in 2017, this R&D project’s objective was to develop and implement innovative algorithm models 
whose application to some future contracts and all calls for tenders, would allow Salini Impregilo to improve its 
service levels, delivery timeliness and security while also cutting industrial costs. The underlying objective was 
to obtain external intelligence to serve virtual graphic software that uses an algorithm to identify the correlation 
between the type of material to be used and the type of work to be designed and built. The model would also 
establish the quantities and costs as well as construction and installation methods. The innovative BIM system, 
initially considered to be an operating model and not a tool, was designed as an information model to plan, 
design, build and maintain large works, i.e., a model containing all the information about the work’s entire 
lifecycle, from design to construction and until demolition and decommissioning. Its innovative feature was that 
of being a parametric model housing all the information about the work’s entire lifecycle. This solution can be 
used to create a three dimensional model as well as a dynamic, interdisciplinary, shared and constantly evolving 
information model, which includes data about geometry, materials, the weight-bearing structure, thermal 
105 