 
centres formula, with workshops on the technical and management aspects of the Group’s projects and visits to 
work sites. The Liguria Regional Authorities acknowledged the Group’s involvement in the “Register of 
Endorsers” and its contribution to the regional professional orientation project for students at all levels 
(#progettiamociilfuturo). 
Salini Impregilo made the “Best Employer of Choice 2019” ranking for the fourth consecutive year, at fourth 
place in the general classification and taking first place as the most attractive employer for technical and scientific 
graduates. Again in 2020, Salini Impregilo is one of the "Best employers of choice" of university graduates, 
ranking 10th in the general classification and holding on to its position as one of the most attractive employers 
for STEM university graduates. It was also included in the “Best Awareness” programme ranking fourth as the 
company best known by Italian university graduates. These prestigious recognitions, based on the results of a 
survey, and the Group’s consistent ranking among the top places bolsters its reputation on the labour market 
and its appeal as an employer of choice, assisted by its regular notification of job vacancies and intense 
employer branding activities at the main universities. Salini Impregilo is not only a favourite among university 
graduates. It also obtained the “Universum” ranking as the “Most attractive employer” in the construction sector. 
During the year, it launched the new “Our team” section of its “Careers” section of the website to give more 
visibility to the vast range of professionals and operating profiles within the Group. The section presents the 
internal positions and teams through direct endorsements from group personnel. 
 
Selection and acquisition 
The employee selection and acquisition activities are regulated by a defined, standardised procedure at 
corporate level and for its projects that require the structured scheduling of requirements, followed by a scouting 
stage (on the market or internally) and recruitment. The Company uses a special system that ensures the 
traceability and transparency of the talent acquisition process and the ongoing updating of the pipeline of 
candidates to be recruited. 
The Company introduced a new onboarding process in 2019 to smooth the entry of new resources, facilitate 
their integration with the managers and colleagues, promote a faster transfer of internal know-how and 
competences and transmit the internal values and culture. It defined specific tools such as the dedicated training 
courses through E-Learning Academy, the preparation and gifting of a welcome kit with the main organisational 
and operating documents as well as mentorships to encourage integration and reception of the Company’s 
culture. 
 
Training and development 
Training programmes were continued in 2019 and the Company defined specific tools to support and promote 
career paths, organisational growth and the continuity of its succession plans. 
Salini Impregilo defined a new leadership model which identifies managerial skills and conduct necessary to 
achieve its strategic objectives in line with its values. Roll out of the model will continue in 2020 with tailored 
111 