 
communication and training campaigns and will be the basis for HR management processes (selection, training, 
management performance). It will also be a reference point for group resources in their daily working lives. 
The Company also introduced assessment programmes to support growth and, specifically: 
•  the Step-up programme for «Early career profiles» 
This programme was earmarked at a group of young professionals who have been with the Company 
for three to four years. They participated in readiness and potential assessments (tests, interviews and 
simulations) and had to return an individual report providing additional information on their managerial 
profile, strengths and areas for improvement. This provided the Group with important information to be 
used to define subsequent training courses. 
•  an assessment programme to support the promotion and development policies for senior corporate and 
project resources. Specifically, the programme is designed to assist with the assessment of managers 
who are potential candidates for promotion, integrating the assessment of their technical and specialist 
skills with managerial skills assessment tools, including the assessment of the new leadership model 
skills, specific personality tests and one-on-one interviews with the HR department.  
Development activities included business coaching for certain managers to assist their development in line with 
the Company’s values and required skills. These sessions were designed and carried out to develop the 
leadership qualities of certain key figures and/or rising talents. It had a positive influence on business 
performance and the internal environment, strengthening the managers’ motivation and sense of belonging as 
well as facilitating their move up the corporate ladder. 
In 2019, the coaching programme focused on the technical and operations resources. It will be extended to the 
managerial roles of other professional areas in 2020. 
The key management development levers include the Global Managerial Academy, conceived in 2019 and 
officially opened in February 2020. 
It has been designed to encourage the development of leadership and managerial skills of those resources who 
already hold key positions or are rising through the ranks and is structured differently depending on the 
resource’s seniority. 
Training activities entail the participants’ involvement in a digital business game to gain experience in a wide 
range of skills through training in the form of simulations and experiential learning. They cover technical and 
financial aspects, processes and leadership qualities with a special focus on change leading, complexity 
management, development of team skills in an inclusive approach and the enhancement of diversity and 
customer orientation. 
The Company’s training programme is based on an analysis of training requirements, which identifies any gaps 
and the most appropriate training to resolve them, and strategic change management objectives and the 
Company’s workforce development. 
The Group’s Learning Academy, introduced in 2015 to promote a new training model that strengthens the 
existing expertise and disseminates the know-how throughout the organisation, has various programmes: 
112 