 
Workers, health and safety officers and supervisors and managers attend regular refresher courses. The 
courses for health and safety specialists meet the minimum requirements of the relevant legislation. 
Training and information activities are documented in terms of participation numbers and the content presented 
and materials used. 
The work site workers (employees of the Group and its subcontractors) receive special training on the related 
risks, specific activities and the possible risks of interference (Induction, Tool Box Talk, Job Safety Analysis/Pre-
Job Meetings, etc). 
In order to ensure the collaboration of all the Group’s employees, they have the right to appoint safety 
representatives in accordance with the applicable legislation. 
These representatives are given the relevant training and information about HSE issues to encourage risk 
mitigation measures. They are also consulted about the implementation of key mitigation measures, including 
as a minimum: 
▪  the introduction of a new process or equipment or its adaption;  
▪  the appointment of the risk assessment manager;  
▪  injuries. 
The Health and Safety Policy provides for, inter alia, the “right to intervene” for all employees when there is a 
doubt that health or safety could be compromised.  
Employees may also use the whistleblowing system described in the section on “Anti-corruption” to make 
notifications about health and safety issues or they may use the other available channels at group level (e.g., 
reporting to their superior) or work site level (e.g., the workers’ representatives, post boxes, grievance 
mechanisms). 
The Corporate Safety, Environment and Systems Unit regularly performs specific audits of the safety measures 
in place at the Group’s work sites and assesses application of the internal health and safety in the workplace 
regulations. As described in the section on Total reward, the company has a system to assess performance in 
terms of health and safety for its managers which rewards dedication and the results obtained by the relevant 
units and units over which they have influence.  
In 2019, the Group continued its Safety Builders Program as part of its more wide-reaching communication 
strategy, Valyou - Our Health and Safety Way project, launched to encourage a strong corporate safety culture, 
based on strengthening leadership abilities at all management levels. 
Specifically, more than 29 workshops and 11 safety intervention (s.a.f.e.r.) training courses were held with the 
participation of 711 managers, supervisors and workers for a total of roughly 3670 hours of training. 
119 