 
The Integrity Board is informed of the results of investigations into important injuries pursuant to the provisions 
of the Organisational Model (Legislative decree no. 231/2001 as subsequently amended). 
The Company will continue to make occupational health and safety improvements over the coming years to 
achieve a further reduction in its injury rates (LTIFR and TRFR), an increase in the security training provided for 
direct employees and as part of the Safety Builders programme and to step up its operating monitoring activities, 
with on-site security assessments and audits.  
Salini Impregilo guarantees protection of its workers’ health in the workplace with a special Internal Healthcare 
Unit, which schedules prevention procedures, health checks and healthcare monitoring programmes. It also 
performs regular checks of the work sites and makes sure they are provided with the relevant information to 
ensure that safety conditions are in line with the applicable legislative requirements. 
When adequate local healthcare units are not available, the Company sets up work site medical clinics which 
offer 24-hour healthcare and ambulance services to direct and indirect employees as well as their family 
members residing in the work site accommodation. The Group ensures that the local populations are also 
provided with healthcare assistance for acute or serious problems in remote areas not served by public 
healthcare units (reference should be made to the section on social aspects for more information). 
Employees of the Italian head offices and their families also have private health insurance which covers 
healthcare services for non-work related issues. The Group runs numerous initiatives at its offices and work 
sites promoting the importance of good health, flu vaccine programmes, campaigns about the prevention of 
sexually transmitted diseases (e.g. HIV) and campaigns to promote healthy life styles, including the organisation 
of sporting events for workers.    
As it is aware of the added value achieved through mutually beneficial relationships between all the relevant 
parties, Salini Impregilo works with its commercial and financial partners and its vetted suppliers to guarantee 
high health and safety standards and to protect the environment. In line with the role it takes on during contracts, 
the Company promotes and/or ensures a Safety in Design approach so that the decisions taken right from the 
design stage are designed to eliminate/mitigate health and safety risks throughout the contract’s life cycle.   
In September 2019, the COCIV consortium, led by Salini Impregilo, signed an agreement with the trade unions 
Feneal-Uil, Filca-Cisl and Fillea-Cgil establishing that the Third Valico Railway Crossing work sites would have 
specific worker safety representatives to flank the representatives required by law. These new representatives 
liaise with all the representatives in the various work sites to provide a larger picture of the situation and prevent 
critical issues from materialising. 
Salini Impregilo has defined a series of measures to safeguard the health and safety of its employees due to the 
Coronavirus (COVID-19) emergency. These measures are designed to ensure, as far as possible, business 
continuity in the offices and at the work sites and are coordinated by a special multi-departmental task force 
based at the parent's headquarters. They are revised as necessary to comply with any new instructions issued 
by the competent authorities. 
122 