 
Human rights                                                               
Human Rights Policy  Agreement with the international trade 
issued in 2019  union BWI 
in place since 2014 
100% of the operating entities  Monitoring principles 
included in the risk assessment of human  extended to the supply chain 
rights 
 
Internal policies 
Salini Impregilo is committed to ensuring respect for the human rights enshrined in the International Charter of 
Human Rights, the fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organisation, the UN Global Compact, 
the UN Guiding principles on business and human rights and the OECD guidelines for multinational enterprises.  
In 2019, it issued a specific Human Rights Policy to reaffirm its commitment, already provided for in the Code of 
Ethics and the Sustainability Policy.  
The Human Rights Policy establishes the principles that everyone who works with Salini Impregilo around the 
world shall comply with, in terms of health and safety, child labour, forced labour, freedom of association and 
collective bargaining, non-discrimination, diversity and inclusion, working conditions, local communities and the 
rights of indigenous people, the value chain and whistle-blowing systems. The Company’s main undertakings 
are described below and more information is available in the policy on the website.  
Salini Impregilo does not tolerate any form of illegal, child labour or forced or compulsory labour. It protects the 
integrity of its employees, ensuring work conditions that respect the dignity of individuals and are fair and 
favourable.   
It offers equal opportunities based on fair and objective criteria. It does not accept any form of discrimination or 
damaging behaviour.   
Salini Impregilo respects its employees’ right to freedom of association and collective bargaining in accordance 
with the legislation applicable in the countries where they work. It does not discriminate against employees who 
join trade unions nor workers’ representatives.  
The Company also respects the rights and culture of the communities and indigenous peoples affected by its 
work and operates in accordance with the applicable requirements.  
Salini Impregilo encourages respect for human rights in its values chain through specific measures, such as the 
screening systems, application of the Suppliers Code of Conduct and monitoring systems.  
124 