 
complaint management procedures (grievance mechanisms). The Company ensures open communications with 
the workers and management’s availability to discuss any issues that may arise with individual employees.  
The Group enters into employment contracts with its employees that comply with the applicable local regulations, 
the principles of the framework agreement signed with BWI and those in any agreements signed with the local 
trade unions with respect to work conditions, work hours, economic treatment and employment relationships. 
The Group’s intention is to ensure scrupulous compliance with the applicable regulations in each country to 
mitigate the risk of non-compliance and, where possible, provide conditions that are better than those envisaged 
by the local regulations.  
As part of the integration process of the Rome and Milan offices, commenced in September 2015 and still 
ongoing, the Company extended the voluntary redundancy procedure introduced in previous years until 31 
January 2021, with the relevant trade unions’ agreement. Salini Impregilo extended the agreement with the trade 
union representatives of the Rome and Milan offices for those employees who are near the legal retirement age 
for the incentivated early retirement of those employees who meet the legal requirements for retirement before 
31 December 2020. 
The Group may potentially be exposed to the risk that discrimination against an individual employee or specific 
categories of employees may take place in the workplace. In this respect, the Company’s HR management 
procedures do not allow the different treatment of employees based on their gender, origin, religion, age, political 
beliefs, sexual orientation, disability or other characteristics protected by the regulations ruling in the countries 
where the Group operates during the entire HR management procedure (recruitment, training, assessments and 
termination of employment).  
With respect to its local communities, the Group’s activities may generate risks related to its core construction 
business, such as noise pollution, dust, vibrations, work site vehicles and damage to private property. Risks 
related to the acquisition of land are immaterial as the client usually acquires the land directly. However, Salini 
Impregilo scrupulously adheres to the legal and contractual requirements and those set out in the project impact 
assessments to ensure it complies with them during its work and the activities contracted to third parties 
(subcontractors).    
Work sites may be assigned a security unit in specific geographical areas due to the risks identified. The security 
personnel may be employees and/or personnel provided by third parties, who are usually unarmed and/or by 
personnel supplied by the army or local police departments through specific contracts, formal agreements or 
service orders. 
The security personnel at the operating units receive initial training and periodic refresher courses from the local 
managers based on training programmes that reflect the applicable standards and regulations and include 
information on respect for the individual, human rights and the Code of Ethics. When group employees or 
127 