 
and/or critical environmental issues affecting the areas outside the work site during the development or roll out 
of the work. This includes investigating the causes to determine whether they are due to the project and, if so, 
together with the client, to define mitigation/prevention measures with the client and check their effectiveness.  
To ensure the correct implementation of the environmental plans, the work sites schedule and provide for 
information/training to be given to the employees involved in contracts with potential impacts on the environment, 
including the subcontractors’ employees. It regularly runs campaigns to raise employees’ awareness of specific 
issues (e.g., energy savings, waste, spills, use of hazardous substances/preparations, etc.). 
The work site environmental departments carry out the monitoring/supervision procedures provided for in the 
environmental plan with regular checks and audits of the activities performed directly and indirectly by 
subcontractors. If any instances of non-compliance are identified, special remedial actions are defined as well 
as plans to improve the processes and/or performance when deemed appropriate.  
Contract management regularly reviews environmental performances and the management system’s strengths 
and weaknesses. It sets objectives for the subsequent period to ensure ongoing improvement. 
The Company is committed to the optimal use of resources and reduction of its environmental footprint. It will 
continue to protect the areas where it works to ensure that serious environmental accidents do not take place, 
that production processes become more efficient, the use of local raw materials is more efficient and effective 
and that water resources, materials and waste not sent to landfills will be reused (in line with the applicable 
legislation). It will assess its water management cycle and machinery to define additional measures to reduce 
its impact on the environment. Finally, it will continue to provide training courses about the environment to its 
employees to increase the per capita hours provided to direct employees.  
At corporate level, the Group HR, Organisation and Systems Department defines methodologies, tools and 
operating methods to manage quality, health, safety and the environment issues. Its Safety, Environment and 
Systems Unit is in charge of the environmental management system. It provides technical assistance with 
environmental issues, analyses the Group’s environmental performance and defines the objectives/guidelines 
for continuous improvement to pursue steadily improved performances.  
Communications about environmental aspects are made on a hierarchical basis within the Company through 
the QEHS coordinators (who liaise with the Corporate and contract managers), the company intranet, the 
website and this Statement. Other internal communication channels (e.g., employees, subcontractors) and 
external channels (e.g., local communities) are set up at individual production unit level in line with the ruling 
legislation,  contractual  requirements  and  any  recommendations  in  the  social  and  environmental  impact 
assessments approved by the authorities. 
Employees may use the whistleblowing system described in the section on “Anti-corruption” for environmental 
notifications. In addition, some work sites have additional notification systems (grievance mechanisms), which 
142 