 
Other sources of air pollution are the unloading of site equipment and plant. The methods adopted by the Group 
to mitigate these impacts are described below: 
•  regular dampening of unpaved roads accessing work sites, aggregates wetting systems at the crushing 
plants, the use of filters on the cement storage silos and asphalt production plants, covering lorries 
transporting powdery materials, tyre washing systems at site entrance points and the replacement of 
road transport with conveyor belt transport; 
•  preventative and regular maintenance schedules for site plant and vehicles, ongoing replacement of the 
fleet with more efficient models. 
The “Climate Change” section provides information on the Group’s energy efficiency actions.   
Noise and vibrations  
The aspects relating to noise and vibrations are of double significance for the Group: internally, in terms of the 
health of workers, and externally, in terms of impacts on the environment and local communities. 
The Group’s QEHS management system includes specific procedures to assess and monitor these aspects, so 
that each site can adopt the most appropriate measures to ensure protection of the health and safety of workers 
(use of personal protection equipment, soundproofing, etc.) and of the surrounding environment. 
With regard to the effects on the environment surrounding the sites, the areas most affected by noise 
interference are protected by noise barriers, which can be artificial dunes made of backfill material, support 
structures and absorption panels made of various materials. The noise barriers can also be one or more rows 
of trees or shrubs which both absorb the noise and reduce the visual impact. The choice of the barrier depends 
on its effectiveness, the area in which it will be placed and its landscaping effect. 
Vibration is also a feature of work at civil engineering sites. The effects of pressure waves that propagate in the 
soil can cause damage to buildings or other structures located in the vicinity of the works. During the works, 
periodic monitoring of both noise and vibration is carried out. 
 
Biodiversity, cultural heritage and environmental restorations 
The performance of infrastructure projects requires the implementation of special protection measures when the 
sites are adjacent to or within sites of special natural, cultural or archaeological interest, so that construction 
activities interfere as little as possible with the existing ecosystem and heritage.  
The protection measures, which are implemented in accordance with the local authorities’ provisions and the 
relevant applicable legislation, are designed to protect and preserve the ecosystem, flora and fauna, biodiversity 
and cultural/landscape and archaeological heritage of the areas around the sites.  
With respect to biodiversity, 21% (2018: 5%) of the areas managed by the Group was located in protected areas 
and 2% (2018: 2%) in areas adjacent to protected areas24 in 2019.  
 
24 The sites (not located within protected areas) in which activities with potential impacts on surrounding protected areas are carried out are 
considered “adjacent to protected areas”. 
149 