 
The metro projects under construction alone will allow the fast, efficient and sustainable transportation of roughly 
three million people a day on state-of-the-art infrastructure, avoiding emissions of roughly 550 thousand tonnes 
of CO a year. The high speed railway projects will shorten travel times by between 25% to 50%, providing 
2 
around 23 million people with safe, rapid and low-carbon services. In fact, rail transportation services generate 
emissions up to one eighth of those of the most environmentally-friendly cars and up to one ninth of the most 
efficient aircraft.  
The Group has built 7,534 km of metros and railway lines, 64,194 km of roads, 590 km of bridges and viaducts 
and 1,587 km of tunnels and underground works. 
It has constructed unique works like the new Panama Canal, which has enabled the post-Panamax ships to 
cross the American continent since 2016 rather than going around it, leading to an approximate 16 million tonne 
reduction in CO emissions a year. 
2 
Clean Hydro Energy                                                                                                                         
The energy sector is responsible for two thirds of the global GHG emissions while roughly 840 people still do 
not have access to electricity.  
Hydropower is the first renewable source of energy in the world and provides 71% of all the global renewable 
electricity. Unlike the other renewable sources like wind and solar power, which are intermittent and, therefore, 
cannot ensure the constant supply of energy, hydropower is the most reliable and constant source. This is why 
it is essential for the world's energy transition.   
Hydropower is one of the renewable sources with the lowest unit cost, which makes it particularly suitable for 
those areas of the world where most of the population still does not have electricity, like some of the emerging 
economies. 
The Group is one of the key players in this sector and has installed capacity of 45,000 MW, which includes both 
completed and ongoing projects. 
The ongoing hydropower projects will have capacity of more than 14,000 MW and will provide low-cost clean 
energy to tens of millions of people around the world, especially in the Horn of Africa (Ethiopia and surrounding 
countries) Central Asia (Tajikistan and adjacent countries) and Australia. This should avoid emissions of roughly 
14.5 million tonnes of CO  a year. 
2
   
16 
 