 
Anti-corruption                                                                         
Zero tolerance  Anti-corruption system 
for corruption  ISO 37001 certified 
  
Continuous training  Whistleblowing 
on anti-corruption  a dedicated platform 
 
Internal policies 
Salini Impregilo has a zero tolerance policy for all types of corruption and is committed to complying with the 
anti-corruption laws ruling in the countries where it operates. It requires its stakeholders to act with honesty and 
integrity at all times. The Company never condones behaviour designed to improperly influence the decisions 
taken by representatives of public or private bodies.  
The Company is committed to adopting preventive protocols to minimise the risk of corruption and to ensure 
compliance with the principles introduced by anti-corruption laws and international best practices. 
These principles are enshrined in its Code of Ethics and reiterated in its Anti-corruption Policy, adopted 
voluntarily and in compliance with international best practices. 
 
Main risks and management methods 
Salini Impregilo has an Anti-corruption System which meets the ISO 37001 requirements and is certified by an 
independent certification body. In addition to its Anti-corruption Policy described earlier, the system has the 
following additional elements: 
•  preparation, updating and application of the Anti-corruption Model approved by the Board of Directors 
on 16 June 2014 and updated on 28 September 2018; 
•  issue of Guidelines and internal procedures and integration of existing ones to define the roles and 
responsibilities of the parties involved and the operating methods for the processes and controls defined 
in the above documents.  
As part of its zero tolerance policy, the Company seeks to align its strategy with the Anti-corruption System, 
instilling a compliance culture and mitigating the potential risks of non-compliance.   
The Board of Directors adopts the Anti-corruption System while the Compliance Unit monitors the Anti-corruption 
System and its correct application. It draws up an annual Compliance Plan, which sets out the Company’s goals 
to ensure achievement  of the  general  objectives  and ISO 37001 recertification. The Control, Risk and 
151 