 
Sustainability Committee, the Board of Statutory Auditors and the Director in charge of the Internal Control 
System all check the Compliance Plan as does the Integrity Board for the aspects related to Legislative decree 
no. 231/2001. 
The Anti-corruption System is designed to cover the risks to which the Company could be exposed. With respect 
to active corruption, the main risks identified relate to interaction with representatives of the Public administration 
as part of specific activities, such as, for example, those to comply with defined obligations vis-à-vis the public 
administration or the obtaining of authorisations from it (licences and permits, payment authorisations from works 
management or approval of design extensions/variations). Other risks may arise from participation in calls to 
tender by public bodies, inspections and/or checks or disputes. 
With respect to active corruption in the private sector, this risk is less material and mostly relates to the Group’s 
participation in tenders called by private bodies or management of partnerships. 
The main risks facing the Company arise from procurement and subcontracting activities. During the assignment 
stage, potential suppliers/subcontractors could attempt to corrupt a company employee to obtain the contract 
(passive corruption). In addition, once the contract has been signed, the suppliers/subcontractors could act 
unlawfully to obtain approval and, hence, payment for activities they did not actually perform or the non-reporting 
of non-compliance of their services. 
The Compliance Unit performs an anti-corruption risk assessment by specific process for the Company as part 
of the risk assessments necessary to regularly update the 231 model. The assessment is performed for the 
other group companies (subsidiaries, consortia, joint ventures, etc.) using a scope defined on the basis of the 
CPI (corruption perception index) assigned to the country where the Group’s companies operate and depending 
on how long their compliance system has been in place. Roughly 85% of the legal entities making up Salini 
Impregilo Group were included in the Anti-corruption risk assessment scope in 2019. 
The procedures specifically designed to monitor the above risks include the Guidelines for the Assessment of 
Relevant Third Parties, which define valuation procedures applicable to potential counterparties before a 
contract is signed. The procedures aim to identify the ethics and professional integrity of the Group’s partners 
and their compliance with its anti-corruption policies. Parties that pass the due diligence are monitored using the 
internal systems over the entire term of the contract relationship to ensure that they continue to comply with the 
initially requested requirements. To complete the due diligence, the Group has specific procedures to monitor 
conflicts of interest with its employees during the recruiting stage and during any internal transfers within the 
Group. It plans to update its third party assessment procedures in 2020 to extend their scope.  
With respect to gifts given to third parties, the Company revised its procedures in 2018 to decrease the spending 
limits and reinforce the authorisation process in place for sponsorships and donations to monitor these activities 
and ensure their compliance with the Code of Ethics. 
152 