 
Supply chain                                                            
15 thousand suppliers  >230 thousand hours 
that worked with Salini Impregilo from 70  HSE training provided to subcontractors’ 
countries  employees 
Innovation Days  Average vendor rating index 80/100 
to encourage collaboration with  confirming the high quality of the supply 
innovative suppliers and partners  base 
 
Internal policies 
Each year, Salini Impregilo works with thousands of suppliers both for its contracts and internal requirements. 
As defined in its Code of Ethics, its conduct is hinged on principles of correctness and transparency, and it is 
committed to not exploiting any conditions of dependence or weakness of its suppliers.  
The Company selects its suppliers using principles of fairness and impartiality and selection criteria which 
involve checking their quality, technical/professional qualifications, compliance with standards about human 
rights, labour regulations, including equal opportunities, health, safety and the environment as well as prices.  
Suppliers are required to formally accept the Code of Ethics, the Anti-corruption Model and, starting from 2020, 
the Suppliers Code of Conduct, which are integral parts of the contract. Salini Impregilo encourages its suppliers 
to apply the same criteria when selecting their subcontractors and also to pass on the Group’s principles of 
integrity, correctness, reliability and sustainability in order to encourage and promote compliance with its 
principles along the entire supply chain. 
The Company is committed to protecting the confidentiality of the corporate information and professional know-
how and asks its counterparties to do likewise. 
When Salini Impregilo manages contracts directly or as the project leader, or there are specific agreements in 
place, the suppliers are required, to the extent of their involvement, to comply with/adopt the Company’s Quality, 
Environment, Health and Safety Management Systems.  
 
Main risks and management methods 
In 2019, the Group worked with around 15 thousand suppliers from over 70 countries. The main supply 
categories related to subcontracts, materials, machinery and equipment and services.  
An inadequate functioning of the qualification process and/or assessment of the suppliers’ performance or the 
possible abuse of a strong position vis-à-vis smaller suppliers could possibly expose the Group to various risks 
as part of its procurement process, such as compliance, reputation and commercial.  
155 