 
The main risks arising from external factors include potential risks of non-compliance related to regulation 
updates that make it necessary to adopt new measures with suppliers, commercial and reputation risks due to 
possible issues with suppliers (e.g., inadequate performance in technical, qualitative, safety, environmental 
areas, etc.) after the contract has been signed.  
The Company has established a number of procedures to manage the procurement of goods and services and 
monitor these risks. They include definition of the roles, responsibilities and checks to be performed to ensure 
that the operating activities are performed in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations, the 
Company’s Code of Ethics, the 231 Model and the Anti-corruption Model.  
The supplier qualification procedure is an important part of the procurement process. Its aim is to assess whether 
the potential supplier meets the Company’s criteria so that it can be included in the Vendor List. This qualification 
procedure also ensures that the Group’s requirements are met for all goods categories and in all relevant 
geographical areas.  
The  Procurement  Department  manages  the  supplier  qualification  process,  which  involves  a  number  of 
preliminary checks of the potential supplier’s reputation, its expertise and that it is not already included in the 
Reference Lists.  
Potential suppliers are required to fill in a questionnaire on areas such as: business and production category, 
organisation  and  shareholder  structure,  financial  reporting,  registration  and  certifications,  quality,  the 
environment and safety, social responsibility (including human rights), specific information about their goods 
categories (when available).   
Based on these questionnaires, the Procurement Department may proceed with specific analyses and detailed 
checks, which can include assessment visits to the supplier’s production units and offices. Other company 
departments, such as the Technical Services and Safety, Environment and Systems Departments, may also 
participate in the visits which are designed to assess the supplier’s technical and operating capabilities with 
special regard to the products and services of interest to the Group. They also investigate those aspects that 
could affect the potential partner’s ability to comply with its contractual commitments.  
Additional risk analyses are performed for certain suppliers that fall into the counterparty risk category using the 
methods and tools defined by the Risk Management Unit.  
Upon completion of the checks, suppliers found to be suitable for qualification are included in the suppliers 
register and the relevant Vendor List.  
Certain contracts require adoption of a specific additional qualification system depending on the applicable 
regulatory  and  contractual  requirements.  For  example,  suppliers  working  on  projects  subject  to  LEED 
environmental  certification  are  subjected  to  additional  checks  to  verify  their  compliance  with  specific 
environmental parameters, while other specific requirements, such as social criteria, are checked for projects 
acquired in some countries. These may include checking potential suppliers whose workforce mainly consists 
of employees from special categories (e.g., ethnic minorities). 
In 2019, the Corporate Procurement Department vetted all the new 4,990 suppliers to verify their integrity, 
classification of their know-how and reference lists.  
156 