 
 
Clean Water                                                                                                                                
The efficient management of water is one of the principal global challenges given that five billion people live in 
areas subject to water stress, 2.4 billion people do not have access to drinking water, 4.2 billion to modern 
sanitation services and 80% of the water discharges are released into the environment without proper treatment. 
In fact, the effects of climate change are having a faster-than-expected effect.  
The Group is a global leader in the water infrastructure sector and active in the entire water cycle, from supply 
to drinking water to irrigation and the final treatment of wastewater. 
Thanks to the group company Fisia Italimpianti, which leads the desalination, drinking water and water treatment 
sector, the Group is a strategic partner for public and private sector clients in areas subject to water stress like 
the Middle East. It builds essential water infrastructure for millions of people. Salini Impregilo also has immense 
experience in building water storage for drinking water and/or irrigation, environmental recovery projects and 
works to upgrade urban wastewater management infrastructure to make it more resilient to the increasingly 
frequent extreme weather events, protecting areas affected by flooding and preventing the pollution of the 
receiving water bodies.  
More than 20 million people are served by just the plants built by Fisia while another approximate 14 million 
people will benefit from the water infrastructures currently being built by the Group, in addition to seven thousand 
hectares of new irrigable land thanks to the irrigation reservoirs under construction.  
Green Buildings                                                                                                                 
By 2050, 68% of the world's population will live in urban areas, which are already highly polluted and subject to 
environmental stress which has a significant fall-out effect on the health of residents and public finance.  
Estimates indicate that 91% of the global urban population breathes air of a quality below the standards set by 
the World Health Organisation. 
Over the years, the Group has constructed civil, institutional, commercial, cultural, sporting and religious 
buildings accumulating vast experience in Eco-design & Construction systems, which allow a reduction in the 
works' environmental footprint over their life cycle.  
Specifically, adoption of these systems (e.g., Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design - LEED) allows 
both a reduction in the environment footprint during construction, thanks to the use of low-environment impact 
raw materials and optimisation of production and logistics processes, and maximisation of the building's 
environmental performance during its lifetime as a result of lower energy and water consumption and less 
emissions.  
17 
 