 
An infrastructure project is planned by a public administration or private sector body (the project proponent) that 
is also involved in the subsequent stages of developing the infrastructure project. This stage involves a number 
of activities that include identifying the project locations, performing feasibility studies and, based on the type of 
work and applicable legislation, completing the social and environmental procedures (assessment of potential 
impacts, consultations with stakeholders, identification of mitigation measures and compensation).  
The public authorities (usually ministries or state environmental protection agencies, assisted by local bodies of 
the area where the project is to take place) actively engage in these procedures: assessing the adequacy of the 
social and environmental impact assessments, the consultation programmes and mitigation plans prepared by 
the Project proponent.  
Upon completion of these procedures, the relevant authorities issue the appropriate authorisations, which 
include any social and environmental requirements the Project proponent has to abide by during the project.  
Contractors such as Salini Impregilo enter the project development process only after the decision-making stage 
has been completed as this only involves the client and the public authorities. The Group takes part in selection 
procedures, organised by public and private clients to award the tenders, which may cover specific project 
activities (e.g., just construction), the entire engineering, procurement and construction cycle or also the 
subsequent operations & maintenance activities.  
Therefore, the contractor does not take part in any activities prior to the assigning of the contract or the prior 
assessment processes, including the assessment of the project’s social and environmental impacts and 
consultation of stakeholders.  
As described earlier, these assessments are the sole responsibility of the Project proponent and of the public 
authorities, as they are required to meet the relevant obligations under the applicable regulations. They also 
have the decision-making powers about the findings of the assessment process. It follows that the potential 
social and environmental impacts of the work itself (e.g., loss of biodiversity due to the infrastructure’s presence, 
expropriation of land) are the sole responsibility of the Project proponent.  
The contractor is obliged to comply with the social and environmental requirements of the applicable regulations, 
the  contract  and  any  provisions  imposed  by  the  competent  authorities  when  they  approve  the  impact 
assessments. The social and environmental impacts attributable to the contractor arise solely from the contract 
activities and are mainly of a temporary nature (e.g., disruptions caused by the work site, health and safety in 
the workplace).  
 
Materiality analysis  
The Company performed a materiality analysis as set out in the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards to define 
the individual topics to be disclosed in the Non-financial Statement pursuant to Legislative decree no. 254/2016. 
The main steps comprising this analysis are set out below: 
•  internal identification of the possible non-financial topics relevant to the Group, by analysing the global 
situation (megatrends, the Paris Agreement, SGD), the market scenario (peers), the financial context 
(reports published by analysts and ESG rating agencies) and applicable standards; 
166 