 
•  internal prioritisation of the identified topics, in line with the Company’s Sustainability Strategy and 
policies;  
•  engagement with the stakeholders with two separate surveys, one for middle management and one for 
employees, clients, suppliers, investors, NGOs and ESG experts; 
•  approval of the material topics by management involved in non-financial reporting. 
The materiality matrix is included in the Introduction sector. 
The material aspects identified by the materiality analysis, grouped into the macro categories provided for by 
Legislative decree no. 254/2016 are listed below:  
Topics as per 
Materiality outside the 
Leg. decree no.  GRI related material aspects  Materiality within the Group 
Group 
254/2016 
Materials, Energy, Water, Biodiversity,  Direct activities performed  Activities performed 
Environment  Emissions, Waste and Environmental  at the offices and work  by subcontractors and 
compliance  sites  service providers 
Employment, Industrial relations, Health and  Direct activities performed  Activities performed 
Employees  safety, Training, Diversity and equal  at the offices and work  by subcontractors and 
opportunities* and Non-discrimination  sites  service providers 
Freedom of association and collective 
Activities performed 
bargaining, Child labour, Forced or  Direct activities performed 
Human rights  by subcontractors and 
compulsory labour, Security practices and  at the work sites 
service providers 
Rights of indigenous peoples  
Activities performed 
Direct activities performed 
by the third parties 
Anti-corruption  Anti-corruption  at the offices and work 
defined in the Anti-
sites 
corruption Model 
Direct activities performed  Activities performed 
Supplier environmental assessment, 
Supply chain  at the offices and work  by subcontractors and 
Supplier assessment for impacts on society 
sites  service providers 
Market presence, Procurement practices,  Direct activities performed  Activities performed 
Social  Local communities and Indirect economic  at the offices and work  by clients and 
impacts  sites  subcontractors 
*The equal opportunities topic is material mostly for the corporate offices while it is of less significance at the work sites given 
the characteristics of the construction sector, which is a predominantly male domain.   
 
A new material topic was identified during the procedure to update the materiality analysis, which was not 
present in the previous Statement: Innovation. It is not included in the previous table as this is not required by 
Legislative decree no. 254/2016 or the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards. However, this Statement 
includes the topic as required by the latter Standards. 
 
167 