 
A key facilitator of the organisational re-engineering project undertaken by the Group is the Performance 
Dialogue tool. It allows continuous monitoring of the ongoing projects through regular debriefing sessions that 
involve all internal levels of the Group's organisation. The tool ensures a structured exchange of information 
between the resources in the field and at headquarters, shared objectives and management priorities, the 
definition of agreed action plans and activation of operating tools to resolve any critical issues and benefit from 
potential opportunities.  
Making processes more efficient has a significant impact on productivity and optimisation of the allocated 
resources, for example, in terms of personnel productivity (revenue/employees), which improved by roughly 7% 
in 2019. 
 
Innovation 
Salini Impregilo considers innovation to be fundamental for its long-term sustainable development.  
The Group's sector is known for the highly customised processing, techniques and technologies deployed 
depending on the nature of the works to be performed even though the construction sector is generally 
considered to have a low innovation level. Each project is unique and requires the development of bespoke 
solutions designed thanks to highly specialist know-how. The Group's work sites are real hives of innovation 
and advanced research. 
Innovation is not only a lever to overcome the technical challenges of the projects to be built but it also underpins 
the Group's competitiveness, as it contributes to making its core processes more efficient, thanks to optimised 
performance times and costs and support processes, as well as its social and environmental performance, 
because it translates into an improvement in safety conditions and a smaller impact on the environment, and, 
thus, on the communities where the Group operates. 
 
Development process for innovative initiatives 
 
Construction 
Materials
techniques
5.
1.
Implement 
innovation Identify needs Partnership:
-Technicians and experts 
inside the Group Energy 
-Innovative suppliers  efficiency
4. 2.
-External professionals
Prototyping and  Devise potential  -Universities
tests solutions -Research centres
3.
Digitalisation Virtual reality
Develop an idea
 
Research, development and innovation initiatives take place at project and central level. They involve the 
technical departments of both the Group and its partners (innovative suppliers, professionals, universities and 
19 
 