 
Faced with the customer’s persistent unwillingness to reasonably implement appropriate, contractually provided 
for measures to manage such disputes, the contractor - and thus the original contracting partners - was forced 
to acknowledge the resulting impossibility to continue the construction activities needed to complete the project 
at its full and exclusive risk by undertaking the relevant full financial burden without any guarantee of the 
commencement of objective negotiations with the counterparty. In this context, at the end of 2013, formal notice 
was sent to the customer to inform it of the intention to immediately suspend work if the customer refused once 
again to address this dispute in accordance with a contractual approach based on good faith and the willingness 
of all parties to reach a reasonable agreement.  
Negotiations between the parties, supported by the respective consultants and legal experts, were carried out 
through February 2014 and, on 13 March 2014, an agreement was signed. The essential elements of the 
agreement provided that the contractor would resume works and functionally complete them by 31 December 
2015, while the customer and contracting companies agreed to provide financial support for the works to be 
finished up to a maximum of about €1.3 billion. The customer met its obligation by granting a moratorium on the 
refunding of  already disbursed contract advances  totalling  about €729 million and disbursing additional 
advances amounting to approximately €91 million. The group of contracting companies met their obligation by 
directly disbursing approximately €91 million and additional financial resources, through the conversion into cash 
of existing contractual guarantees totalling around €360 million.  
While the 13 March 2014 agreement provided for financial support to complete the Canal, claims were made by 
the contractor Grupo Unido Po el Canal (“GUPC”) to the customer during the contract’s execution. 
After the pre-litigation stage before the Dispute Adjudication Board (“DAB”) to discuss the claims as provided 
for contractually, there are a number of separate arbitration hearings ongoing before the International Chamber 
of Commerce between GUPC (with its European partners Sacyr, Salini Impregilo and Jan De Nul) and the 
Panama Canal Authority (“PCA”) as described below.  
The following arbitration proceedings are still in place: 
1.  the arbitration about the DAB’s decisions on the claims presented by GUPC about the inadequate quality 
of the basalt compared to the quality guaranteed by PCA and the lengthy delays caused by PCA to approve 
the design formula for the concrete mix. After the stage performed to confirm the arbitration tribunal’s 
competence to rule which ended with the award that the tribunal was competent to rule on the damages 
incurred by the individual members of the consortium, the merits proceedings are at a preliminary stage; 
2.  the arbitration about the extra costs incurred by GUPC due to certain unjustified conditions imposed by 
ACP for the design of the lock gates and other claims about labour costs. The proceedings are at an initial 
stage; 
3.  the arbitration commenced in 2016 involving the sundry claims mentioned in the completion certification; 
the proceedings are at an initial stage. 
On 11 March 2020, Salini Impregilo filed its arbitration application with the International Centre for Settlement of 
Investment Disputes (ICSID) against Panama. It has claimed damage for the Central American country’s 
repeated violations of the bilateral investment treaty agreed by its government with the Italian government in 
189 