 
2009 to promote and protect investments. 
Already in previous years, the Group applied a valuation approach to the project on the basis of which significant 
losses to complete the contract were recognised, offset in part by the corresponding recognition of the additional 
consideration claimed from the customer and determined based on the expectation that recognition of such 
consideration could be reasonably deemed to be highly probable based on the opinions expressed by its legal 
experts and in light of the damages awarded by the DAB.  
In 2019, the estimate for the extra costs to complete the project was updated, as well as the additional 
consideration claimed from the customer (again with the support of the Group’s experts). The Group has 
reflected this situation in its consolidated financial statements. 
Considering the uncertainties linked to the dispute stage, the Group cannot exclude that currently unforeseeable 
events may arise in the future which could require changes to the assessments made to date.  
CAVTOMI Consortium (high speed/capacity Turin - Milan line) 
With respect to the contract for the high speed/capacity Turin - Milan railway line - Novara - Milan sub-section, 
the general contractor Fiat S.p.A. (now FCA N.V., “FCA”) is required to follow the registered claims of the general 
subcontractor CAVTOMI Consortium (“CAVTOMI” or the “consortium”), in which Salini Impregilo has a share of 
74.69%, against the customer Rete Ferroviaria Italiana (“RFI”).   
Accordingly, in 2008, FCA initiated contractual arbitration proceedings against RFI for the award of damages 
suffered for delays in the works ascribable to the customer, non-achievement of the early completion bonus also 
due to the customer and higher consideration. On 9 July 2013, the arbitration tribunal handed down an award 
in favour of FCA, ordering RFI to pay approximately €187 million (of which about €185 million pertaining to 
CAVTOMI).   
RFI appealed against the award before the Rome Appeal Court in 2013 and paid the amount due to FCA, which 
in turn forwarded the relevant share to CAVTOMI. The ruling of 23 September 2015 of the Rome Appeal Court 
cancelled a large part of the aforementioned arbitration award. FCA appealed to the Supreme Court.  
Following the Appeal Court’s ruling, RFI notified FCA of a writ of enforcement of approximately €175 million and 
subsequently the two parties reached an agreement whereby FCA provided RFI with the following in order to 
prevent enforcement of the aforementioned ruling, without prejudice to the parties’ substantive rights, which are 
subject to final judgement: (i) payment of an amount of approximately €66 million, and (ii) issue to RFI of a bank 
surety of €100 million (€75 million by Salini Impregilo). 
The consortium is confident that its arguments will be accepted at the end of the dispute supported by the opinion 
of its legal advisors. 
A date for the merits hearing has yet to be set. 
Moreover, the Group cannot exclude that events may take place in the future that cannot currently be foreseen 
and that could make it necessary to change its valuations. 
In addition, FCA and the consortium have commenced the following actions: 
190 