 
 
Rome Metro   
As part of the contract for the design and construction of the works for the B1 line of the Rome Metro, Salini 
Impregilo commenced three legal proceedings in its name and as lead contractor of the joint venture against 
Roma Metropolitane S.r.l. (“Roma Metropolitane”) and Roma Capitale requesting they be ordered to pay the 
disputed claims recorded during works execution, for which a technical appraisal by a court-appointed expert 
was provided.  
1. Supreme Court - claims for the final billing for the Bologna - Conca d’Oro section 
The Rome Court’s ruling of August 2016 settled the first level proceedings involving the claims made for the 
Bologna - Conca d’Oro section and partly accepted the joint venture’s requests, ordering Roma Metropolitane 
to pay roughly €11 million, plus VAT and related costs.  
The joint venture commenced the necessary actions to collect the receivable based on this temporary 
enforceable ruling, which allowed it to collect the accepted amounts. It also presented an appeal for the award 
of a greater amount. 
The Rome Appeal Court handed down its ruling of July 2018 rejecting the grounds for the joint venture’s appeal 
and concurrently partly accepted the counter appeal presented by Roma Metropolitane, finding claim no. 38 to 
be ungrounded, although it had been partly accepted by the first level court for €4 million (already collected by 
the joint venture after the court’s ruling). 
The joint venture has appealed to the Supreme Court against the Appeal Court’s ruling and a hearing date is 
awaited. 
2. Rome Court - first set of claims for the Conca d’Oro - Jonio section 
The second proceeding relates to the first set of claims for the Conca d’Oro - Jonio section and is at the initial 
stages and has been deferred with the interim ruling of 2018 issued after the hearing for the conclusions. The 
judge accepted some claims made by the joint venture and ordered the court-appointed expert to recalculate 
the amounts due to the joint venture for just the claims rejected. 
This ruling partly contradicts the findings of the court-appointed expert (which had already been filed) which 
confirmed the joint venture’s claims for approximately €27.5 million. 
The interim ruling of January 2018 was challenged solely for the part that rejected some claims already 
examined by the court-appointed expert earlier.  
The expert completed their appraisal in December 2018 and filed their additional report which included four 
possible amounts ranging from approximately €12 million to €23 million in favour of the joint venturers. Roma 
Metropolitane has requested the appraisal be reperformed by a new expert. A decision has not yet been taken. 
3. Rome Court - second set of claims for the Conca d’Oro - Jonio section 
The third proceeding refers to the second and last set of claims for the Conca d’Oro - Jonio section, was 
commenced in September 2016 and the court-appointed expert completed their work in November 2018 and 
194 