 
deemed highly probable, supported by the opinion of the Group’s advisors. 
The directors are confident that its arguments will be accepted during of the ongoing arbitration proceedings 
supported by the opinion of its legal advisors. 
However, the Group cannot exclude that events may take place in the future that cannot currently be foreseen 
and that could make it necessary to change its valuations. 
Project S8 (Poland) 
The Group has a 95% interest in a joint venture in Poland set up in November 2014 for the design and 
construction of roads. 
Although the main road section was opened to traffic on 22 December 2017, in May 2018, the customer informed 
the joint venture that the contract was considered to be terminated due to the latter’s alleged breach of contract 
and concurrently requested payment of fines of €4.1 million. 
On 22 May 2018 and 7 June 2018, the joint venture informed the customer that it considered termination of the 
contract to be null and void and also asked for payment of the outstanding amount of €1.7 million and the 
contractually provided-for fines. Finally, it noted that the contract terminated due to the customer’s default. The 
customer has attempted to enforce the performance bonds of approximately €8 million, which the joint venture 
had provided. The joint venture obtained a court order from the Parma Court preventing this on a precautionary 
basis. 
The Group has already commenced appropriate legal measures to protect its rights and, accordingly, filed a 
claim form with the Warsaw first level court on 31 October 2019 for the recovery of the costs not paid before 
termination of the contract, claims and compensation for the irregular termination. 
Unforeseen costs have been incurred and the joint venture has accordingly presented its request for additional 
consideration. The costs are included in the measurement of contract assets and liabilities for the part deemed 
highly probable to be recovered, based also on the opinions of the Group’s advisors.  
Moreover, the Group cannot exclude that events may take place in the future that cannot currently be foreseen 
and that could make it necessary to change its valuations. 
Project A1F (Poland) 
The Group has a 100% interest in a joint venture in Poland set up in October 2015 for the design and construction 
of roads. 
On 29 April 2019, the customer informed the joint venture that the contract was considered to be terminated due 
to the latter’s alleged breach of contract and concurrently requested payment of fines of roughly €18 million. 
On 6 May 2019, the joint venture informed the customer that it considered termination of the contract to be null 
and void. On 14 May 2019, it notified that the contract terminated for reasons attributable to the customer as a 
result of reported defaults that were not remedied by the customer.  
The customer obtained enforcement of the performance bonds, retentions and fines of approximately €37 
million, which the joint venture had provided.  
196 