 
The Group will take all appropriate legal action to protect its rights. 
Unforeseen costs have been incurred and the joint venture has accordingly presented its request for additional 
consideration. The costs are included in the measurement of contract assets and liabilities for the part deemed 
highly probable to be recovered, based also on the opinions of the Group’s advisors.  
Moreover, the Group cannot exclude that events may take place in the future that cannot currently be foreseen 
and that could make it necessary to change its valuations. 
Project S3 (Poland) 
The Group has a 99.99% interest in a joint venture in Poland set up in December 2014 for the design and 
construction of roads. 
On 29 April 2019, the customer informed the joint venture that the contract was considered to be terminated due 
to the latter’s alleged breach of contract and concurrently requested payment of fines of roughly €24.7 million. 
The customer has attempted to enforce the performance bonds of approximately €13 million, which the joint 
venture had provided. After the filing of an appeal against this enforcement, Salini Impregilo S.p.A. provided for 
payment. 
On 6 May 2019, the joint venture informed the customer that it considered termination of the contracts to be null 
and void and legally ineffective. On 14 May 2019, it noted that the contract terminated attributable to the 
customer’s default as a result of challenged defaults that were not remedied by the customer. 
The Group has commenced appropriate legal measures to protect its rights and, accordingly, filed a claim form 
with the Warsaw first level court on 31 October 2019 for the return of the amounts related to the undue 
enforcement of the bank guarantees and payment of the fines. 
Unforeseen costs have been incurred and the joint venture has accordingly presented its request for additional 
consideration. The costs are included in the measurement of contract assets and liabilities for the part deemed 
highly probable to be recovered, based also on the opinions of the Group’s advisors.  
Moreover, the Group cannot exclude that events may take place in the future that cannot currently be foreseen 
and that could make it necessary to change its valuations. 
Copenhagen Cityringen 
As a result of critical issues about this project related to its specific features and the significance of the works, 
the Group had to significantly revise the cost estimates for the early stages of this project. They mainly related 
to the construction of the concrete works, the electromechanical works and the architectural finishings. 
The negotiations with the customer, assisted by their consultants and technical/legal advisors, led to the signing 
of an interim agreement on 30 December 2016 (which allowed the Group to collect €145 million) and other 
agreements (claim settlement agreement no. 7 of 6 April 2017, the additional agreement of 2 May 2017, 
addendum no. 4 to the CSA no. 7 of 29 June 2018, addendum no. 5 to the CSA no. 7 of 21 January 2019 and 
addendum no. 6 to the CSA no. 7 of 15 May 2019) which enabled it to collect additional amounts (for a total of 
€260 million). This settled some claims with the outstanding claims related to the pending arbitration proceeding 
197 