 
before the Building and Construction Arbitration Board.  
On 12 July 2019, the Group delivered the project and the metro was officially opened to the public on 29 
September 2019. 
Unforeseen costs have been incurred and the Group has accordingly presented its request for additional 
consideration. The costs are included in the measurement of contract assets and liabilities for the part deemed 
highly probable to be recovered, based also on the opinions of the Group’s advisors. 
Moreover, the Group cannot exclude that events may take place in the future that cannot currently be foreseen 
and that could make it necessary to change its valuations.  
North West Rail Link (Australia) 
This project included the design and building of a 36 km metro line north west of Sydney, of which 4.6 km as a 
viaduct (the Skytrain bridge). The metro opened in May 2019. 
The Group participated in the project through a joint venture of Salini Impregilo and Salini Impregilo PTY Limited. 
After the joint venture presented claims, the DAB issued a decision acknowledging its right to AUD34,530,036.07 
(roughly €21.4 million) on 9 December 2019. 
The contract with Sydney Metro provides for resort to the Australian Centre for International Commercial 
Arbitration should one or both of the parties be unsatisfied with the DAB’s decision. 
In fact, on 31 January 2020, both the joint venture and the customer presented the DAB with a notice of 
dissatisfaction and local arbitration proceedings are expected to be commenced 
The directors are confident that its arguments will be accepted at the end of the dispute supported by the opinion 
of their legal advisors.  
Unforeseen costs have been incurred and the joint venture has accordingly presented its request for additional 
consideration. The costs are included in the measurement of contract assets and liabilities for the part deemed 
highly probable to be recovered, based also on the opinions of the Group’s advisors.  
Considering the uncertainties linked to the dispute stage, the Group cannot exclude that currently unforeseeable 
events may arise in the future which could require changes to the assessments made to date. 
Al Bayt Stadium (Qatar) 
On 25 October 2019, the joint venture comprising Leonardo S.p.A. and PSC S.p.A. commenced an arbitration 
proceeding before the International Chamber of Commerce against the joint venture consisting of Galfar Al 
Misnad Engineering and Contracting, Salini Impregilo S.p.A. and Cimolai S.p.A. (“GSIC JV” in which the Group 
has a 40% interest) with respect to the contract to build the Al Bayt Stadium in Doha, Qatar.  
As subcontrator of the contract to supply mechanical and electrical works, the Leonardo/PSC joint venture 
claimed damages for the acceptance of variations and other compensation from the contractor GSIC JV. As part 
of  the  same  arbitration  proceedings,  GSIC  JV  presented  its  counterclaim,  which  includes,  inter  alia, 
acknowledgement of the costs incurred on the subcontractor’s behalf and compensation for the higher costs 
incurred due to the latter’s delays and negligence. 
198 