 
•  Eurolink Scpa; 
•  Reggio Calabria Scilla Scpa; 
•  Salerno Reggio Calabria Scpa; 
•  Consorzio Iricav Due. 
Their claims were based on the following: 
a)  offsetting their receivables from Condotte that were due before 6 August 2018 against their payables 
due to Condotte which were also due before 6 August 2018; 
b)  filing of the outstanding balances after the offsetting in the insolvency proceeding; 
−  as a pre-preferential claim as provided for by article 51.3 of Law no. 270/1999 (the “Prodi Law”) 
and article 74 of the Bankruptcy Law; 
−  alternatively and subject to appeal, as a preferential claim in accordance with article 2761.2 of the 
Italian Civil Code for the principle and article 2758 of the Italian Civil Code for the VAT collected at 
source; 
−  as a secured claim as a further alternative and subject to appeal. 
Specific comments were filed on the proposed claims with the commissioners to be examined. 
The meetings with the creditors are taking place and a date for the hearing to examine the claims presented by 
the consortia and/or the consortium companies listed above has not yet been set. 
Therefore, until the creditors’ claims are examined in court, additional information whether they will be included 
in the insolvency proceedings and their classification (i.e., pre-preferential, preferential or secured) is not 
available.  
The parent has analysed the recoverability of some of the Group's receivables arising on its participation in 
Italian consortia and due from consortium partners that are currently under extraordinary administration or other 
court-approved procedures. 
Supported by its legal advisors, the directors are confident that the SPEs in which Condotte has an investment 
will recover the amounts due from it (net of offsetting), also because the ongoing strategic works are expected 
to be continued. However and given the counterparties’ situations, the Group has impaired the receivables by 
€45.8 million. 
The group companies are carefully monitoring developments in the situation. 
Moreover, the Group cannot exclude that events related to the above-mentioned extraordinary administration 
procedure may take place in the future. 
Astaldi 
Astaldi S.p.A., which has investments in group companies, filed a petition as per article 161.6 of the Bankruptcy 
Law with the Rome Court. It has also reserved the right to file a plan and deed of arrangement proposal pursuant 
to article 160 and subsequent articles and article 186-bis of the Bankruptcy Law. 
206 