 
Specifically, it filed its petition on 27 September 2018 and it was published the next day (28 September 2018). 
On 16 October 2018, the Rome Court granted a period of up to 16 December 2018, subsequently deferred to 
14 February 2019, for presentation of the above proposal. It appointed special commissioners to monitor the 
company’s activities until this date, requiring the company to comply with a number of disclosure obligations. 
On 13 February 2019, Salini Impregilo made a binding offer for Astaldi with terms promptly communicated to 
the market. The transaction is designed to strengthen Astaldi’s financial position and performance as part of the 
deed of arrangement. 
On 14 February 2019, the parent presented an offer to Astaldi for a potential investment therein to be used to 
support its business continuity proposal underpinning Astaldi’s application for a deed of arrangement. Astaldi 
filed the plan and deed of arrangement proposal as per the application for a deed of arrangement as a going 
concern in accordance with articles 160, 161 and 186-bis of the Bankruptcy Law with the Rome Court, with 
details of how it meant to satisfy its creditors. 
The Astaldi offer and, accordingly, the plan and deed of arrangement proposal were subsequently updated and 
confirmed by Salini Impregilo and Astaldi on 15 July and 2 August 2019, respectively, also to reflect the fact that 
progress had been made on the main conditions precedent that are to be met if the offer is to be effective. They 
include agreements between Salini Impregilo and institutional and financial partners to obtain the necessary 
assistance to perform the Astaldi transaction, given its importance to the entire sector: 
a) the business continuity of just the infrastructure construction unit (the “EPC business unit”), the facility 
management and complex system management activities (“O&M activities) and certain minor concessions 
related to the EPC activities; 
b) liquidation of the other assets, which will be transferred to a separate unit to be set up pursuant to article 
2447-bis and following articles of the Italian Civil Code, in line with the financial projections contained in the 
plan. 
The Rome Court issued its decree on 5 August 2019 accepting Astaldi’s application for deed of arrangement on 
a going concern basis. It found that the company’s plan and deed of arrangement proposal, in compliance with 
the offer, were feasible within the proposed terms and procedures.  
The Court issued a separate ruling authorising Astaldi to agree a new pre-preferential bridge loan to support its 
financial requirements until approval and also set the date for the hearing for the creditors’ meeting and related 
vote for 6 February 2020. 
The bankruptcy section of the Rome Court postponed the hearing for the creditors’ meeting and related vote to 
26 March 2020. 
Astaldi deems that the Court’s postponement should nonetheless allow for completion of the proceedings within 
the timeline estimated for the plan’s implementation. 
As required by the notification pursuant to article 171 of the Bankruptcy Law, the consortia filed their proof of 
claims (pre-preferential, preferential or secured) before 10 January 2020 indicating any differences to Astaldi’s 
records. 
207 