 
Given the country’s situation, the Group tested the assets recognised in its consolidated financial statements at 
31 December 2019 for impairment again, in line with the considerations and assessments made during 
preparation of the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2018. 
In line with the analyses presented in the 2018 Annual Report and considering the guidelines of the IFRS, the 
Group tested its financial assets for impairment in accordance with IFRS 9 by remodelling its payments by date 
and amount. It also estimated the effective interest rate, which includes Venezuela’s credit risk. 
In June 2019, Salini Impregilo commenced arbitration proceedings before the International Chamber  of 
Commerce. 
The Group’s gross exposure amounted to €643.4 million at 31 December 2019, including €120.2 million of loans 
and approximately €523.2 million of receivables for consideration accrued on work performed (this latter figure 
comprises €318.7 million already invoiced and recognised as trade receivables and €204.5 million recognised 
as contract assets net of contract liabilities). The Group estimated total impairment losses on these assets of €
514.7 million. 
In view of the delicate and complex uncertain situation that has developed at political level, the possibility that 
events not foreseeable at the reporting date may arise in the future which would require changes to the 
assessments made to date cannot be excluded. 
Nigeria 
Despite the positive oil price trends (USD55/barrel at the start of the year compared to USD65 at 20 December 
2019), the economic crisis in place since 2015 has continued although some small signs of an improvement 
have recently been seen. 
After the latest depreciation of the Nigerian naira, its exchange rate with the Euro has stabilised at NGN345. 
The crisis has led to higher unemployment with the related increase in criminality and widespread discontent. 
The construction sector is struggling to regain vitality, like the country’s other production sectors. Given the 
limited funding available, the federal government focuses on projects deemed strategic for the country’s 
development like road infrastructure, hydraulic works and energy generation. 
The presidential elections took place in March 2019 and the outgoing President and majority party were re-
elected. Therefore, it can be assumed that the ongoing payment of the amounts due to the main contractors 
operating in Nigeria, commenced by the previous government, will continue until completion in 2021. 
Given the country’s situation, the Group tested the assets recognised in its consolidated financial statements at 
31 December 2019 for impairment again, in line with the considerations and assessments made during 
preparation of the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2018. 
It cannot be excluded that events which cannot currently be foreseen may take place after the date of preparation 
of this report that require changes to the assessments made to date. 
 
 
210 