 
Ukraine 
This country’s political and economic situation is still extremely difficult, even after the recent presidential 
elections, although great change is expected after the forthcoming parliamentary elections.  
Although there has been a gradual improvement in the local economic situation, the public accounts continue 
to suffer, mostly as a result of the lack of internal and external investments and reforms that would boost the 
country’s economy. 
During the performance of the contract to upgrade the Kiyv – Kharkiv – Dovzhanskiy section of the M03 
motorway from 2013 to 2016, there were no significant threats to its activities. The work site, located near 
Poltava, was far from the areas most affected by the armed conflict between Ukraine and Russia (the Donbass 
war). 
From a financial viewpoint, the Group is not exposed to currency depreciation risk since the contractual amounts 
are paid in Euros and US dollars at rates agreed with the contract was signed. 
Main contract events and effect of the sale of Todini 
The parent’s sale in April 2016 of Todini Costruzioni Generali (which had been awarded the M03 contract) was 
one of the factors that led to the customer’s termination of the contract in August 2016. 
The Group defended its position and obtained positive rulings from the Dispute Board (DB) with respect to both 
its financial requests and the principal of the issue, including the illegality of the termination.  
The customer’s continued refusal to comply with the DB’s rulings, including after the Group has made significant 
concessions, led to the effective termination of the contract in March 2017, the dismantlement of the work site 
and commencement of arbitration proceedings before the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) in Paris.  
Arbitration proceedings before the Paris International Chamber of Commerce 
As part of the pending arbitration proceedings, the ICC issued two partial awards substantially confirming the 
amounts awarded by the DB on a provisional basis and without prejudice to the assessment of the merits of the 
claims presented.  
On 26 June 2018, it issued its first partial final award for an amount equivalent to approximately €54 million. On 
30 January 2019, it issued the second partial final award for the interest accrued on the amounts awarded with 
the first award of approximately €7 million. 
The ICC also established that additional interest is to be charged on the amounts due to the Group up until the 
date of effective payment of the contractual consideration. 
The claims presented by the Group to the ICC total UAH1,367 million (the equivalent of approximately €130 
million at 31 December 2019), as per the amounts claimed via the Dispute Board plus the additional claims and 
related financial expense made directly to the ICC. The final award is expected to be issued before the end of 
2020. 
In view of the present critical situation, it cannot be excluded that events not foreseeable at the date of this report 
may arise in the future requiring changes to the assessments made to date. 
211 