 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 
1. Basis of preparation 
Salini Impregilo S.p.A. (the “parent” or “Salini Impregilo”) has its registered office in Italy. These consolidated 
financial statements at 31 December 2019 include the financial statements of the parent and its subsidiaries 
(the “Group”). The Group, created by the reverse merger of the Salini and Impregilo Groups, is a global player 
in the large-scale infrastructure sector. 
Salini Impregilo Group has prepared its consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2019 on a going 
concern basis. The directors have checked that events that could affect the Group’s ability to meet its 
commitment in the near future and, specifically, in the next 12 months do not exist. Preparation of consolidated 
financial statements requires management to make judgements and complex estimates about the Group’s future 
profitability and financial position, based also on its sector. These complex estimates underpin assumptions 
about going concern and the carrying amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and costs. They do not consider 
non-recurring events that management cannot foresee at the date of preparation of the consolidated financial 
statements.  
In addition, as required by Regulation 1606/2002 issued by the European Parliament and Council, implemented 
in Italy by Legislative decree no. 38/2005, these consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (IASB) and endorsed by the European Union.  
The format and content of these consolidated financial statements comply with the disclosure requirements of 
article 154-ter of the Consolidated Finance Act. 
The accounting policies adopted to draw up these consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2019 are 
consistent with those used to prepare the 2018 annual consolidated financial statements, to which reference 
should be made, except for the changes summarised in note 2. 
IAS 29 - Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies 
After a lengthy observation period of inflation rates, which have exceeded 100% in the last three years, Argentina 
has been considered a hyperinflationary economy pursuant to the IFRS since 2018. As a result, all the 
companies operating in Argentina have applied IAS 29 - Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies in 
their financial reports starting from 1 July 2018.  
These conditions were applicable in 2019 as well.  
The Group’s results for 2018 included the effects of applying the above standard from 1 January 2018.  
2. Changes in standards 
Changes in standards and effects of new standards 
This section lists the standards, amendments and interpretations published by the IFRS, endorsed by the 
European Union and applicable since 1 January 2019: 
   225 