 
Category      Depreciation 
rate 
Land     0% 
Buildings    3% 
Plant and machinery    from 10% to 20% 
Industrial and commercial equipment    from 25% to 40% 
Other assets    from 12% to 25% 
 
Land and buildings, plant and machinery with a carrying amount to be recovered mainly through their sale 
(rather than the asset’s continuing use) are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less 
costs to sell. Assets held for sale shall be available for immediate sale and their sale shall be highly probable 
(i.e., the related commitments already exist). Their price shall be reasonable compared to their fair value.  
Assets acquired as a result of business combinations are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date and 
remeasured within a year. Such amount reflects their purchase cost. 
After their initial recognition, they are measured at cost, depreciated over their estimated useful lives and shown 
net of any impairment losses. 
When  an  asset  consists  of  different  significant  components  with  different  useful  lives,  the  significant 
components are recognised and subsequently measured separately. 
The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is tested for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances take place indicating that the carrying amount may not be recovered. Reference should be made 
to the section on “Impairment of non-financial assets” for details on impairment testing. 
Borrowing costs directly related to the acquisition or construction of an asset are capitalised as part of the cost 
of the asset, to the extent of its recoverable amount. As established by IAS 23 - Borrowing costs, the Group 
has applied this method to all qualifying assets. 
Borrowing costs are capitalised when the costs of the acquisition of the asset and borrowing costs are incurred, 
and the activities necessary to bring the asset to a condition for its use have been started. 
The costs provided for but not yet paid related to qualifying assets are excluded from the amount to be 
capitalised. 
Capitalisation of borrowing costs is suspended during extended periods in which active development is 
interrupted. 
Moreover, capitalisation of borrowing costs ceases when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare 
the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are complete. 
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised if it increases the future economic benefits of the related asset. All 
other expenditure is expensed when incurred. 
Ordinary maintenance costs are fully expensed when incurred. Costs that increase the carrying amount of 
assets are allocated thereto and depreciated over their residual economic lives. 
   237 