 
Dismantlement and restoration costs of assets used for contract work in progress are added to the cost of the 
related asset and depreciated in line with the depreciation pattern of the asset to which they refer when they 
are foreseeable and objectively determinable. 
Leasehold improvements are classified in the different items of property, plant and equipment on the basis of 
their nature. They are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the relevant asset and the 
residual term of the lease. 
Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities 
Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities are recognised in accordance with IFRS 16. More information about 
the application of this standard is available in note 2 “Changes in standards”. 
Rights to infrastructure under concession  
These rights are covered by IFRIC 12 - Service concession arrangements, issued by the International Financial 
Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC), which regulates the recognition and measurement of concession 
arrangements between public sector entities and private sector operators. It was endorsed by the European 
Commission with EC regulation 254/2009 dated 25 March 2009 and its application is mandatory for financial 
statements drawn up under IFRS beginning from the year after which it was endorsed. Therefore, the Group 
has applied IFRIC 12 since 2010. 
The criteria adopted by the Group to apply the interpretation to its concessions are set out below. 
Scope and measurement  
Scope: IFRIC 12 is applicable to service concession arrangements when the grantor is a public body and the 
operator is a private entity, when the following conditions are met: 
a)  the grantor controls or regulates what services the operator must provide with the infrastructure, to whom 
it must provide them, and at what price; and 
b)  the grantor controls – through ownership, beneficial entitlement or otherwise - any significant residual 
interest in the infrastructure at the end of the term of the arrangement. 
Measurement of the revenue arising from the concession arrangement: the operator acts as the service 
provider (construction and management of the work) and recognises the revenue for the construction and 
upgrade services in accordance with IFRS 15 - Revenue from contracts with customers. 
The grantor pays the operator a consideration for the construction/upgrade services, to be recognised at fair 
value, which may consist of rights to: 
(a) a financial asset (financial asset model); 
(b) an intangible asset (intangible asset model); 
(c)  both (“mixed” model). 
The first model is applicable when the operator has an unconditional contractual right to receive a specified or 
determinable amount of cash. The second is applicable when the operator acquires the right to charge for use 
   238 