 
of a public sector asset that it constructs or upgrades. The amounts are contingent on the extent to which the 
public uses the service (demand risk). Finally, the third model is applicable when both of the above situations 
are present. In this case, the intangible asset is determined as the difference between the fair value of the 
investment made and the present value of the financial asset obtained by discounting the cash flows from the 
minimum specified amount. 
The Group’s concession arrangements (via the operators consolidated on a line-by-line or proportionate basis) 
fall under the intangible asset model except for two immaterial concessions held by the subsidiaries of HCE 
Costruzioni Generali S.p.A., wholly owned by the parent, which fall under the “mixed model”. The financial 
asset model is applicable to certain equity-accounted associates.  
Recognition of the intangible asset: the intangible asset is recognised during construction of the infrastructure. 
The main identified cases are as follows: 
a.  Arrangements that cover the construction of a new infrastructure: the operator recognises the intangible 
asset in line with the stage of completion of the construction project. During construction, the operator 
recognises revenue and costs in line with IFRS 15 - Revenue from contracts with customers. 
b.  Arrangements that cover management of an existing infrastructure and its extension or upgrading against 
which the operator acquires specific additional financial benefits:  the  operator  recognises  these 
construction and/or upgrade services in line with IFRS 15 - Revenue from contracts with customers. 
Arrangements that cover management of an existing infrastructure and specific obligations to extend or 
upgrade it against which the operator does not acquire additional specific financial benefits: at initial 
recognition, the operator recognises a liability equal to the present value of the forecast outlay for the 
construction services to be provided in the future with, as a balancing item, an additional component of 
the intangible asset for the contract consideration, which begins to be amortised. 
Contractual obligations for the infrastructure’s efficiency levels: given that the operator does not meet the 
requirements for recognition of the infrastructure as “Property, plant and equipment”, the accounting treatment 
differs depending on the nature of the work carried out and can be spit into two categories: (i) work related to 
normal maintenance of the infrastructure; (ii) replacement and scheduled maintenance at a future date. 
The first category relates to normal ordinary maintenance of the infrastructure, the cost of which is recognised 
in profit or loss when incurred, also under IFRIC 12. Given that the interpretation does not provide for the 
recognition of the physical asset but of a right, the second category is recognised in line with IAS 37 - 
Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets, which requires: (i) recognition of an accrual to a 
provision in profit or loss; and (ii) recognition of a provision for charges in the statement of financial position. 
Amortisation of the intangible asset: amortisation of the intangible asset recognised for the rights acquired 
under the concession arrangement is calculated in line with paragraph 97 of IAS 38 - Intangible assets: “The 
amortisation method used shall reflect the pattern in which the asset’s future economic benefits are expected 
to be consumed by the entity. If that pattern cannot be determined reliably, the straight-line method shall be 
used”. 
   239 