 
Key events of the year
 
Progetto Italia                                                                                                 
2019 was a crucial year for the Group in terms of the non-recurring transactions it was involved in, mostly linked 
to Progetto Italia. This industrial operation is of vital importance to the whole country and is designed to 
strengthen its infrastructure sector by acquiring and subsequently integrating Italian construction companies into 
Salini Impregilo.  
The operation has its roots in the Group's growth vision followed for more than ten years, through internal and 
external growth. It is also a response to the need to relaunch the Italian infrastructure sector, hit by difficulties in 
recent years that have affected the main construction companies with a significant impact, inter alia, on 
employment levels.  
Salini Impregilo intends to lever Progetto Italia to create a group of a size, technical expertise, know-how and 
financial, capital and economic solidity to compete more aggressively with the large international players on the 
global stage. The Project will create value not only for the Group but also all its stakeholders and the entire 
country. 
Progetto Italia will benefit the integrated companies as well as the Italian economy, bolstering employment in 
the construction sector and induced sectors (which include over 36 related business segments). It will contribute 
to the sector's relaunch and the unblocking of the many currently blocked work sites. Completion of the 
unfinished infrastructure and more competitive Italian construction companies active on the international market 
will contribute to Italy's GDP and tax revenue. Therefore, Progetto Italia is an operation that is closely related to 
achievement of the SDGs in Italy, especially Goal 8 Decent work and economic growth and Goal 9 Industry, 
innovation and infrastructure.  
In addition to Salini Impregilo, the "aggregator", Progetto Italia involves CDP Equity7, as the strategic partner, 
and a syndicate of Italian banks (Intesa Sanpaolo, UniCredit and Banco BPM) as the financial backers.  
The first integration transactions took place between the end of 2018 and the start of 2019 and involved Seli 
Overseas S.p.A. and Grandi Lavori S.r.l. (which wholly owns GLF Construction, USA)8 and Cossi Costruzioni 
S.p.A.9. 
In 2019, Salini Impregilo presented an offer for an investment in Astaldi10, the second largest Italian construction 
company. Astaldi’s involvement is essential to Progetto Italia as it will allow the integration of the two most 
important Italian general contractors, creating an operator with stronger local roots, like the other large global 
players, and more competitive on international markets, thanks to the synergies between their geographical 
bases and infrastructure sectors served.  
 
7 CDP Equity S.p.A. is a holding company of the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti (CDP) Group, a company controlled by the Italian Ministry of the 
Economy and Finance which promotes the country's growth.  
8 Salini Impregilo has a right of usufruct on their shares and quotas, pending their subsequent acquisition 
9 The acquisition agreement was finalised on 29 March 2019. 
10The offer is part of Astaldi's business continuity proposal with which it has applied for a deed of arrangement procedure to the Rome Court.  
25 
 