 
recognise the asset to the extent of its continuing involvement in the asset. Continuing involvement that takes 
the form of guaranteeing the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the initial carrying amount of the 
asset and the maximum amount of the consideration that the Group could be required to pay.  
(b) Financial liabilities 
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the underlying obligation is extinguished, cancelled or settled. 
When an existing financial liability is exchanged with another by the same lender at substantially different terms, 
or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, this exchange or modification is treated as an 
extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability. The difference 
between the carrying amounts is recognised in profit or loss. 
Derivatives and hedging transactions 
Salini Impregilo Group has derivatives recognised at fair value when the related agreement is signed and for 
subsequent fair value changes. The treatment of the related fair value gains or losses changes depending on 
whether the conditions for hedge accounting under IFRS 9 are met, as described below. 
Salini Impregilo Group has derivatives to hedge currency and financial risks. At the inception of the transaction, 
it documents the hedging relationship, its risk management and strategy objectives in entering into the 
transaction, the hedging instrument and hedged item or transaction and the nature of the hedged risk. 
Moreover, at the inception of the transaction and thereafter on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether 
or not the hedge meets the effectiveness requirements to offset its exposure to changes in the fair value of the 
hedged item or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. 
“Hedging purposes” are assessed considering risk management objectives. When they do not meet the 
requirements of IFRS 9 for hedge accounting, the derivatives are classified as “Financial assets or financial 
liabilities at fair value through profit or loss”. 
Employee benefits 
•  Defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans 
The Group has pension plans for its employees that are classified either as defined benefit plans or defined 
contribution plans depending on their characteristics. Defined benefit plans include the benefits the employees 
will receive when they retire and which are usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of 
service and remuneration. The Group recognises a liability for these defined benefits equal to the present value 
of its obligation at year end, including any adjustments for unrecognised costs related to past service less the 
fair value of the plan assets. The Group calculates its liability once a year using the projected unit credit method. 
Present value is calculated by discounting the future outlays using the interest rate applied to high quality 
corporate bonds with a currency and term consistent with the currency and estimated term of the post-
employment benefit obligations. Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit plans arising from changes in 
the underlying assumptions or in the plan conditions are recognised in other comprehensive income in the 
period in which they arise. Past service cost is expensed immediately. The Group pays benefits to public and 
   250 