 
private pension funds on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis for the defined contribution plans. The 
contributions are recognised as personnel expense. 
The Group contributes to multi-employer pension plans via its US subsidiaries. These plans pool the assets 
contributed by the various entities to provide benefits to the employees of more than one entity determining the 
contribution and benefit levels without regard to the identity of the entity that employs the employees concerned. 
The Group recognises these plans as defined contribution plans. 
•  Short-term and long-term benefits 
Short-term employee benefits, that is, payable within twelve months of the end of the year in which the 
employees rendered the service, are recognised as a cost and as a liability for the undiscounted amount of 
benefits expected to be paid in exchange for that service. Long-term benefits, such as remuneration to be paid 
after twelve months of the end of the year in which the employees rendered the service, are recognised as 
liabilities for an amount equal to the present value of the benefits at the reporting date. 
•  Post-employment benefits 
Post-employment benefits are recognised at the present value of the Group’s liability determined in line with 
ruling legislation and national and in-house labour agreements. The valuation, based on demographic, financial 
and turnover assumptions, is carried out by independent actuaries. The gains and losses resulting from the 
actuarial calculation are recognised in profit or loss if related to service costs and interest expense or in 
comprehensive income if relating to assets and liabilities. 
The  2007 Finance  Act and related implementing  decrees  introduced significant changes to  legislation 
governing Italian post-employment benefits, effective as from 1 January 2007. These include the option given 
to employees, to be exercised before 30 June 2007, of where to allocate their future benefits. Specifically, 
employees can opt to allocate them to selected pension funds or maintain them with the company, in which 
case, the latter shall pay the contributions to the treasury fund of INPS (the Italian social security institution). 
Following these changes, the Italian post-employment benefits accruing after the date of the employees’ 
decision and, in any case, after 30 June 2007, are considered part of a defined contribution plan and treated 
like all other social security contributions. 
•  Share-based payments 
Share-based payments are measured at fair value of the option at the grant date. This amount is recognised 
in the statement of profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. This treatment is based on an 
assessment of the stock options that will effectively vest in favour of the qualifying employees. Fair value is 
determined using the share price at the grant date. 
Income taxes  
Current taxes are provided for using the enacted tax rates and laws ruling in Italy and other countries in which 
the Group operates, based on the best estimate of the taxable profit for the year. 
Group companies net tax assets and liabilities when this is legally allowed.   
   251 