 
Translation criteria for foreign currency items and translation of financial statements of consolidated companies 
or companies measured using the equity method expressed in currencies other than the Euro 
The translation criteria for foreign currency items adopted by the Group are as follows: 
•  foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the closing spot rate with any exchange 
rate gains or losses taken to the statement of profit or loss; 
•  non-monetary assets and liabilities are recognised at historical cost denominated in the foreign currency 
and translated using the historical exchange rate; 
•  revenue and costs related to foreign currency transactions are recognised in profit or loss at the exchange 
rate ruling on the date of the transaction; 
•  any material effects deriving from changes in exchange rates after the reporting date are disclosed in the 
notes. 
With respect to the translation of financial statements of consolidated companies or companies measured using 
the equity method and expressed in currencies other than the presentation currency (functional currency), 
reference should be made to the section on the “Basis of consolidation”. 
The Group has applied IAS 29 - Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies for its subsidiaries and 
associates that prepare their financial statements in a functional currency of a hyperinflationary economy. This 
standard  requires  that  the  financial  statements  of  an  entity,  whose  functional  currency  is  that  of  a 
hyperinflationary economy, be translated at the closing spot rate. The statement of financial position items not 
yet translated into Euros at the reporting date are redetermined using a general price index. All the statement 
of profit or loss items are translated into Euros at the exchange rate ruling on the date the revenue and costs 
were initially recognised. 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be 
recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. 
Assets held for sale are recognised as such when the following events take place: 
•  signing of a binding sales agreement;  
•  approval and communication of a formal sales plan by directors. 
In order to be correctly measured, the assets shall be:  
•  available for immediate sale in their present condition; 
•  subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets, and  
•  the sale must be highly probable and expected to take place within twelve months. 
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their previous 
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. 
   253 