 
Complex accounting estimates  
Preparation of financial statements and the related notes in accordance with the IFRS requires management to 
make judgements and estimates that affect the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and financial statements 
disclosures. The estimates are used to: 
•  recognise goodwill (see section 5 “Business combinations”); 
•  determine amortisation and depreciation (see the “Property, plant and machinery”, “Leased property, plant 
and equipment”, “Rights to infrastructure under concession” and “Other intangible assets” paragraphs of 
the “Accounting policies” section); 
•  recognise impairment losses (see the “Impairment of non-financial assets” paragraph of the “Accounting 
policies” section);  
•  recognise employee benefits (see the “Employee benefits” paragraph of the “Accounting policies” section); 
•  recognise taxes (see the “Income taxes” paragraph of the “Accounting policies” section); 
•  recognise provisions for risks and charges (see the “Provisions for risks and charges” paragraph of the 
“Accounting policies” section); 
•  determine contract revenue, including claims for additional consideration, total contract costs and the 
related stage of completion (see the “Contract assets and liabilities” paragraph of the “Accounting policies” 
section). A significant part of the Group’s activities is typically performed on the basis of contracts which 
provide that a specific consideration is agreed when the contract is awarded. This implies that the profits 
on these contracts may undergo change compared to the original estimates depending on the recoverability 
of greater expenses and/or costs the Group may incur during performance of such contracts. Recognition 
of additional consideration by associates may entail adjustment of their equity due to standardisation with 
the Group’s accounting policies. 
The actual results may differ from those estimated due to uncertainties underlying the assumptions and the 
conditions on which the estimates are based. 
Fundamental assumptions about the future and other reasons for uncertainty when making the estimates at the 
reporting date that may lead to material adjustments to the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities are 
described in the specific section of the Directors’ report on the main risk factors and uncertainties. 
Change in Condotte’s interest in COCIV  
The COCIV consortium (the “consortium” or “COCIV”) was assigned the project for the definitive and executive 
design and construction of the high speed/capacity Milan - Genoa railway line section/Giovi third railway crossing 
with an agreement signed with TAV S.p.A. on 16 March 1992 (the “agreement”) and subsequent rider signed 
with Ferroviaria Italiana S.p.A. (“RFI”), which replaced TAV S.p.A. after it merged into RFI, on 11 November 
2011 (the “rider”). 
COCIV’s membership structure varied over time due to a number of events that led to the following structure on 
19 December 2019: 
   255 