 
The equity investments subjected to impairment testing after identification of trigger events are described 
below. 
Autopistas del Sol S.A 
The Group tested its investment for impairment using a market approach, assisted by an external expert. The 
resulting recoverable amount, dertemined by analysing trends in the investee’s share price during the year; 
was higher than the equity investment’s carrying amount and, therefore, it was not necessary to recognise an 
impairment loss. 
Ochre Solutions Holdings Ltd 
The Group tested its investment for impairment using the English operator’s 2020-2039 business plan assisted 
by an external expert. Its cash flows were discounted using a cost of equity rate of 8.5% (2018: 5.7%) to 
calculate the investment’s recoverable amount. The resulting recoverable amount was higher than the equity 
investment’s carrying amount and, therefore, it was not necessary to recognise an impairment loss. 
Yuma 
The Group tested its investment for impairment in 2019 using the Colombian operator’s 2020-2031 business 
plan assisted by an external expert. Its cash flows were discounted using a cost of equity rate of 9.6% to 
calculate the investment’s recoverable amount. The resulting recoverable amount was higher than the  equity 
investment’s carrying amount and, therefore, it was not necessary to recognise an impairment loss. More 
information is available in the “Main risk factors and uncertainties” section in the Directors’ report.  
Grupo Unido por el Canal 
Following the amendments to IAS 28 (applicable from 1 January 2019), the loan given to the SPE Grupo Unidos 
por el Canal S.A. (Panama) was tested for impairment as it was disbursed to financially support the SPE and, 
therefore, increases the equity investment’s carrying amount.  
The impairment test was performed by discounting the expected cash flows using the assumed settlement of 
the claims and other assets recognised by the SPE as the drivers. Specifically, the cash flows comprised the 
operating expenses (mainly legal fees) and collections expected in line with the estimated payment timeline of 
the claims. 
The discount rate (4.2% - 4.5%) was defined considering: 
•  the estimated payment timeline; 
•  a country risk component. 
The Group recognised an impairment loss of €9.7 million as a result of the test. 
 
 
   277 