 
Financial highlights of the significant associates 
The group associates at 31 December 2019 that management considers significant for the Group are 
presented below. Their share capital consists solely of ordinary shares, which the Group holds directly. These 
companies primarily conduct their business in the country of their incorporation or registration. 
Company   Head office   Registered  investment %  Nature of the  Measurement 
office (if  relationship  method 
different to the 
head office) 
Yuma Concessionaria S.A.  Colombia  n/a  48.33%  (1)  Equity 
Metro de Lima 2 S.A.  Peru  n/a  18.25%  (2)  Equity 
Eurolink S.c.p.a.  Italy  Rome  45%  (3)  Equity 
Autopista del Sol S.A.  Argentina  n/a  19.82%  (4)  Equity 
 
The activities of the above companies are key to the Group’s activities. A description of the nature of Salini 
Impregilo Group’s relationship with the above companies is provided below: 
 (1) the company is held directly by Salini Impregilo S.p.A., and indirectly through Impregilo International 
Infrastructures N.V., and has a concession contract for the third motorway lot of the Ruta del Sol project in 
Colombia. The contract expires in 2036. The governance system requires qualified majority resolutions and 
Salini Impregilo’s investment percentage means it can be classified as an associate. The subsection on 
“Concessions” in the “Abroad” section and the “Main risk factors and uncertainties” section in the Directors’ 
report provides details of the concession’s term;  
(2) the company is held directly by the parent and has a concession contract for the “Metro de Lima 2” project 
(Peru) for the concession, construction and operation of the infrastructure during the 35-year concession 
expiring in 2049. The governance system requires majority resolutions and Salini Impregilo’s investment 
percentage means it can be classified as an associate; 
(3) the consortium company is held directly by the parent and was set up to design and build the Messina Strait 
Bridge and railway and road connectors on both sides in Calabria and Sicily. More information about this 
contract is available in the “Main risk factors and uncertainties” section of the Directors’ report. The governance 
   280 