 
The carrying amount of this investment in Grupo Unido por el Canal (GUPC) is the balance of the parent’s 
receivable due from the joint venture and the provisions for risks on equity investments set up to reflect the 
assessment of the losses to complete the contract. 
Contingent liabilities 
At the date of preparation of this Annual Report, there were no significant contingent liabilities related to the 
Group’s interests in joint ventures and associates. Any related risk areas are described in the “Main risk factors 
and uncertainties” section of the Directors’ report. 
Risks associated with the Group’s interest in associates and joint ventures 
Commitments 
The Group has the following commitments vis-à-vis its associates and joint ventures: 
(€’000)  31 December 2018  31 December 2019  Variation 
Commitments  1,753,937  1,538,620  (215,316) 
The decrease is mainly due to the reduction in the guarantees given on behalf of Grupo Unidos por el Canal (
€245.3 million), the operator Yuma (€25.0 million) and the operator Metro de Lima 2 (€12.8 million), partly offset 
by the increase in guarantees issued on behalf of the non-consolidated joint ventures of Lane Group (€18.6 
million), Per Genova (€25.4 million) and the Canadian associate Mobilink Hurontario General Partnership 
(€37.3 million). 
These guarantees are already included in those presented in note 32. 
Joint operations  
The Group is involved in the following main joint operations: Civil Work Group (Saudi Arabia), South Al Mutlaa 
(Kuwait), Arge Tulfes Pfons (Austria), NGE Genie Civil S.a.s. – Salini Impregilo S.p.A. (France) and Salini 
Impregilo - NGE Genie Civil S.a.s.. 
Salini Impregilo has a direct 52% interest in Civil Work Group (Saudi Arabia) and an indirect 14% interest 
through Salini Saudi Arabia (the Group’s investment in the latter is 51%). Civil Work Group is engaged in the 
civil works for the Riyadh Metro. 
South Al Mutlaa (Kuwait) is 55% held directly by Salini Impregilo. It is constructing primary urbanisation works 
to build a new residential area in a 12 thousand hectares site in Kuwait as part of the South Al Mutlaa Housing 
Project. 
Arge Tulfes Pfons (Austria) is 49% held directly by Salini Impregilo and is engaged in the construction of the 
last section of the Brenner-Innsbruck tunnel.  
NGE Genie Civil S.a.s. - Salini Impregilo S.p.A. (France) is 50% held by Salini Impregilo and is engaged in the 
civil works for the Paris Metro as part of the Gran Paris Express project (Line 14, Lot 4).  
   288 