 
Order backlog 
The order backlog shows the amount of the long-term construction and concession contracts awarded to the 
Group, net of revenue recognised at the reporting date. The Group records the current and outstanding contract 
outcome in its order backlog. Projects are included when the Group receives official notification that it has been 
awarded the project by the client, which may take place before the definitive binding signing of the related 
contract. 
The Group’s contracts usually provide for the activation of specific procedures (usually arbitrations) to be 
followed in the case of either party’s contractual default.  
The order backlog includes the amount of the projects, including when they are suspended or deferred (i.e., 
Venezuela and Libya), pursuant to the contractual conditions.  
The value of the order backlog decreases: 
-  when a contract is cancelled or decreased as agreed with the client;  
-  in line with the recognition of contract revenue in profit or loss.  
The Group updates the order backlog to reflect amendments to contracts and agreements signed with clients. 
In the case of contracts that do not have a fixed consideration, the related order backlog reflects any contract 
variations agreed with the customer or when the customer requests an extension of the execution times or 
amendments to the project that had not been provided for in the contract, as long as these variations are agreed 
with the customer or the related revenue is highly probable.  
The measurement method used for the order backlog is not a measurement parameter provided for by the IFRS 
and is not calculated using financial information prepared in accordance with such standards. Therefore, the 
calculation method used by the Group may differ from that used by other sector operators. Accordingly, it cannot 
be considered as an alternative indicator to the revenue calculated under the IFRS or other IFRS measurements.  
Moreover, although the Group’s accounting systems update the related data on a consolidated basis once a 
month, the order backlog does not necessarily reflect the Group’s future results, as the order backlog data may 
be subject to significant variations. 
The above measurement method differs from the method used to prepare the disclosure on performance 
obligations yet to be satisfied in accordance with IFRS 15 as set out in note 34 to the consolidated financial 
statements. Specifically, the main contract revenue included in the order backlog and not considered in the 
notes includes: 
•  revenue from concession contracts as it is earned mainly by equity-accounted investees; 
•  revenue from the joint ventures not controlled by Lane Group and measured using the equity method;  
•  income from cost recharges attributable to non-controlling members of Italian consortia classified as 
“Other income”.  
•  contracts signed with clients that do not meet all the criteria of IFRS 15.9 at the reporting date. 
33 
 