 
Information about the orders issued by the Rome and Genoa public prosecutors which also involved certain 
parties related to the consortium is available in the “Main risk factors and uncertainties” section. 
High-speed/capacity Verona - Padua Railway Project                                                             
The  IRICAV  DUE  consortium  is  RFI’s  general  contractor  for  the  design  and  construction  of  the  high 
speed/capacity Verona - Padua section as per the agreement of 15 October 1991.  
The 78.8 km railway line will cross 19 municipalities (six in the Verona Province, nine in the Vicenza Province 
and four in the Padua Province), to quadruple the existing line, increase the quality of the Italian railway system 
and assist its integration with the European network. 
Salini Impregilo’s involvement in the consortium is 34.09%. 
On 22 December 2017,  after the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport completed its  inspection,  the 
Interministerial Committee for Economic Planning (CIPE) approved the definitive project for the first functional 
lot, the Verona - Vicenza junction, of the high speed/capacity Verona - Padua railway section, estimated to be 
worth approximately €2.4 billion. It authorised commencement of the first construction works worth an estimated 
approximate €850 million. 
On 18 July 2018, after completion of the legitimacy checks by the Court of Auditors, the CIPE’s approval 
measure was published in the Official Journal and became effective. 
The approval measure authorised a maximum investment of €4.8 billion by RFI in the entire Verona - Padua 
railway line section, of which €4.2 billion for the general contractor. 
During the year, the consortium was again involved in reviewing the updated definitive project for both the new 
works required by the CIPE and the new railway regulations and rules implemented since the date of 
commencement of the authorisation process.  
It also held preliminary meetings with Italferr S.p.A., the technical expert engaged by RFI, to assess the project’s 
technical and financial characteristics. 
On 9 July 2019, following publication of the “Costs-benefits analysis” by the Ministry of Infrastructure and 
Transport, RFI notified the consortium of the timeline for the works necessary to be able to sign the rider for the 
first Verona – Vicenza junction functional lot. 
Negotiations to define the lump-sum consideration and the text of the rider to the agreement of 15 October 1991 
with RFI are still ongoing. 
 
Other projects in Italy 
Naples - Bari railway line Naples - Cancello section                                                                     
The high capacity Naples - Bari railway line is of strategic importance to southern Italy as it connects its two 
most important economic and urban areas, which contribute more than 40% to the south’s total production 
37 
 