 
Brenner base tunnel - Isarco River Underpass                                                                    
This contract consists of underground civil works and external works for the relocation of national road SS12 
and a cargo loading/unloading area on the A22 motorway. Salini Impregilo is the lead contractor with a share 
of 41%.  
During 2019, the main activities involved the works to complete the excavation of four shafts, commencement 
of the works to strengthen the Isarco River Underpass, commencement of boring of the northbound tunnels, 
continuation of consolidation works using the jet grouting technique and the excavation and lining of the 
southbound tunnels. 
Milan - Metro Line 4                                                                                                             
Metro Blu S.c.r.l. (Salini Impregilo’s investment: 50%) was set up to carry out the works and services related to 
the civil works to build the new Line 4 of the Milan Metro.  
The new line, which will be fully automated (i.e., driverless), will cover a 15.2 km stretch from Linate to 
Lorenteggio. It will increase the city’s public sustainability mobility system carrying an additional 24 thousand 
passengers an hour in each direction.  
The contract includes the construction of two single-track tunnels, one in each direction, 21 stations and a 
depot/workshop. Work started in 2013 under an accessory agreement pending approval of the concession 
agreement of 22 December 2014 and the subsequent rider no. 1 of 5 February 2019. 
The consideration for the EPC contract is roughly €1.8 billion.  
The project comprises three stages and will take 103 months from the agreement’s effective date, including the 
pre-operating and functional trials. The expected completion date is 22 July 2023. 
Boring of the tunnels is 83% complete and the work should be finished during the first half of 2020. 
Rebuilding of the Polcevera Bridge of the A10 motorway                                                           
With respect to motorways and bridges, Salini Impregilo and Fincantieri were awarded the contract worth 
approximately €200 million to rebuild the bridge over the Polcevera River in Genoa, as per the decree of the 
extraordinary commissioner for the reconstruction project of 18 December 2018.  
The bridge’s design incorporates environmental aspects, based on projections about the climate in the area to 
ensure that the bridge will stand up to the increase in rainfall expected to occur over the next 80 years. In 
addition, 100% of the excavation materials will be reused during the works and the completed project, once it is 
in operation, will have a photovoltaic system that will provide it with 95% of its energy requirements.  
On 18 January 2019, the extraordinary commissioner signed the contract to rebuild the Polcevera Bridge, part 
of the A10 motorway, with PERGENOVA S.C.p.A., the consortium company limited by shares set up by Salini 
Impregilo and Fincantieri Infrastructure S.p.A. (50:50). The contract covers the design and execution of the 
works and services to rebuild the new bridge. The consortium company received the contract advance on 25 
39 
 