 
3. Basis of presentation 
Separate financial statements 
Salini Impregilo opted to present its separate financial statements at 31 December 2019 as follows: 
-  Current and non-current assets and current and non-current liabilities are presented separately in the 
statement of financial position. Current assets and liabilities are those expected to be realised, sold, used 
or settled in the company’s normal operating cycle, which usually exceeds 12 months. Non-current assets 
and liabilities include non-current assets, deferred tax assets, employee benefits, deferred tax liabilities and 
other balances expected to be realised, sold, used or settled after the company’s normal operating cycle, 
i.e., more than twelve months after the reporting date.  
-  The statement of profit or loss gives a classification of costs by nature and shows the profit or loss before 
“Financing income (costs) and gains (losses) on investments” and income taxes. The statement of 
comprehensive income shows all non-owner changes in equity. 
-  The statement of cash flows presents the cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities 
separately. The indirect method is used. 
Accounting policies 
The accounting policies adopted to draw up the company’s separate financial statements at 31 December 2019 
comply with the IFRS and are consistent with those used to prepare the 2018 separate financial statements, 
except for the standards enacted after 1 January 2019, summarised in the section on the  “Changes in 
standards”. 
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment are recognised at purchase or production cost, net of accumulated depreciation 
and any impairment losses. 
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis using rates determined based on the assets’ residual possible 
use. The annual rates are as follows: 
Category    Depreciation rate 
Land     0% 
Buildings    3% 
Plant and machinery    from 10% to 20% 
Industrial and commercial equipment    from 25% to 40% 
Other assets    from 12% to 25%  
 
Land and buildings, plant and machinery with a carrying amount to be recovered mainly through their sale (rather 
than the asset’s continuing use) are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to 
sell. Assets held for sale shall be available for immediate sale and their sale shall be highly probable (i.e., the 
related commitments already exist). Their price shall be reasonable compared to their fair value.  
   406 