 
The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is tested for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances take place indicating that the carrying amount may not be recovered. Reference should be made 
to the section on “Impairment of non-financial assets” for details on impairment testing. 
Borrowing costs directly related to the acquisition or construction of an asset are capitalised as part of the cost 
of the asset, to the extent of its recoverable amount. As established by IAS 23 - Borrowing costs, the company 
has applied this method to all qualifying assets. 
Borrowing costs are capitalised when the costs of the acquisition of the asset and borrowing costs are incurred, 
and the activities necessary to bring the asset to a condition for its use have been started. 
The costs provided for but not yet paid related to qualifying assets are excluded from the amount to be 
capitalised. 
Capitalisation of borrowing costs is suspended during extended periods in which active development is 
interrupted. 
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised if it increases the future economic benefits of the related asset. All 
other expenditure is expensed when incurred. 
Ordinary maintenance costs are fully expensed when incurred. Costs that increase the carrying amount of assets 
are allocated thereto and depreciated over their residual economic lives. 
Dismantlement and restoration costs of assets used for contract work in progress are added to the cost of the 
related asset and depreciated in line with the depreciation pattern of the asset to which they refer when they are 
foreseeable and objectively determinable. 
Leasehold improvements are classified in the different items of property, plant and equipment on the basis of 
their nature. They are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the relevant asset and the 
residual term of the lease. 
Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities 
Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities are recognised in accordance with IFRS 16. More information about 
the application of this standard is available in note 2 “Changes in standards”. 
Other intangible assets 
Other intangible assets acquired or generated internally are recognised under assets in accordance with IAS 38 
- Intangible assets when it is probable that the use of the asset will generate future economic benefits and the 
cost of the asset can be measured reliably. Those assets with finite useful lives are measured at acquisition or 
development cost and amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Recoverability of their 
carrying amount is checked by using the criteria set out in the section on “Impairment of non-financial assets”. 
Equity investments 
Investments in subsidiaries and associates and interests in joint ventures are measured at cost and tested 
regularly for impairment. This test is carried out whenever there is an indication that the investment may be 
impaired. The method used is described in the section on “Impairment of non-financial assets”. When an 
   407 