 
4. Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; 
5. Recognise revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. 
IFRS 15 also covers contract costs, contract modifications and financial statements disclosures. 
The methods used by the company to apply IFRS 15 are summarised below. 
1. Identify the contract with a customer 
The company identifies and measures contracts with customers in line with IFRS 15 after they have been 
signed and are binding, creating enforceable rights and obligations for the company and the customer. The 
company considers the criteria of IFRS 15.9 set out below to identify the contract: 
a) the parties to the contract have approved the contract (in writing, orally or in accordance with other customary 
business practices) and are committed to perform their respective obligations; 
b) the entity can identify each party’s rights regarding the goods or services to be transferred; 
c) the entity can identify the payment terms for the goods or services to be transferred; 
d) the contract has commercial substance (i.e., the risk, timing or amount of the entity’s future cash flows is 
expected to change as a result of the contract); and 
e) it is probable that the entity will collect the consideration to which it will be entitled in exchange for the goods 
or services that will be transferred to the customer. 
2. Identifying performance obligations and allocating the transaction price 
IFRS 15 identifies a performance obligation as a promise included in the contract with a customer to transfer: 
a) a good or service (or a bundle of goods or services) that is distinct; or b) a series of distinct goods or services 
that are substantially the same and that have the same pattern of transfer to the customer. 
In the company’s case, its performance obligation is usually the entire project. In fact, although the individual 
performance obligations provided for in the contract are distinct, they are highly interdependent and integrated 
as the contract provides for the transfer of the entire infrastructure to the customer. 
However,  certain  contractual  items  include  additional  services  that  should  be  considered  as  distinct 
performance  obligations.  For  example, these may  be  post-completion maintenance services after  final 
inspection and additional or different contract warranties compared to those provided for by law or normal 
sector practices . 
When  a  contract  has  more  than  one  performance  obligation,  the  appropriate  portion  of  the  contract 
consideration should be allocated to each separate performance obligation pursuant  to IFRS 15. The 
company’s contracts with customers usually specify the price of each contractual item (detailed in the contract). 
3. Determining the criteria for satisfaction of the performance obligations and recognition of the revenue 
IFRS 15 provides that revenue shall be recognised when (or as) the performance obligation is satisfied 
transferring the promised good or service (or asset) to the customer. An asset is transferred when (or as) the 
customer obtains control. 
   409 