 
The company’s contracts with customers are usually long-term contracts that include obligations to be satisfied 
over time based on the progress towards completion and transfer of control of the asset to the customer over 
time. 
The reasons why recognition of revenue over time is considered the correct approach are: 
•  the customer controls the asset as it is constructed (the asset is built directly in the area made available 
by the customer); 
•  the asset under construction does not have an alternative use and the company has an enforceable right 
to payment for its performance completed to date over the contract term. 
IFRS 15 requires that progress towards satisfaction of a performance obligation be measured using the method 
that best represents the transfer of control of the asset under construction to the customer. The objective when 
measuring progress is to depict an entity’s performance in transferring control of goods or services promised 
to a customer. The company considers its market sector and the complex mix of goods and services it provides 
when it selects the appropriate revenue recognition method. IFRS 15 provides for two alternative methods to 
recognise revenue over time: 
a) output method; 
b) input method. 
Output methods recognise revenue on the basis of direct measurements of the value to the customer of the 
goods or services transferred to the date relative to the remaining goods or services promised under the 
contract (e.g., surveys of performance completed to date, milestones reached, units delivered, etc.). Input 
methods recognise revenue on the basis of the entity’s efforts or inputs to the satisfaction of a performance 
obligation (e.g., resources consumed, labour hours expended, costs incurred, time elapsed or machine hours 
used) relative to the total expected inputs to the satisfaction of that performance obligation (cost to cost 
method). 
The most appropriate method for measuring revenue is the cost to cost method calculated by applying the 
percentage of completion (the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated costs) to contract revenue. The 
calculation of the ratio of costs incurred to estimated costs only considers costs that contribute to the actual 
transfer of control of the goods and/or services. This method allows the objective measurement of the transfer 
of control to the customer as it considers quantitative variables related to the contract as a whole. 
When choosing the appropriate method for measuring the transfer of control to the customer, the company did 
not adopt the output method (e.g., surveys of performance completed to date) for its ongoing contracts as it 
considered that although this output method would allow a direct measurement of progress, it would also lead 
to operating difficulties in managing and monitoring progress considering all the resources necessary to satisfy 
the obligation. 
In addition, an output method would entail the application of criteria and measurement inputs that are not 
directly observable and the incurring of excessive costs to obtain useful information. 
   410 