 
•  are directly proportionate to the contract and increase the performance obligation transferred to the 
customer; 
•  do not include those costs that will be incurred regardless of satisfaction of the performance obligation; 
•  cannot be avoided by the company through future actions. 
Measurement of any loss-making contracts (the onerous test) is performed at individual performance obligation 
level. This approach best represents the different contract profits or losses depending on the nature of the 
goods and services transferred to the customer. 
6. Contract costs 
6.a Incremental costs of obtaining a contract 
IFRS 15 allows an entity to recognise the incremental costs of obtaining a contract as an asset if it expects to 
recover those costs through the future economic benefits of the contract. The incremental costs of obtaining a 
contract are those costs that an entity incurs to obtain a contract with a customer. Costs to obtain a contract 
that would have been incurred regardless of whether the contract was obtained shall be recognised as an 
expense when incurred (costs not explicitly chargeable to the customer). The incremental costs are recognised 
as an asset (contract costs) and amortised on a systematic basis that is consistent with the pattern of transfer 
of control of the goods or services to the customer. 
6.b Costs to fulfil a contract 
Under IFRS 15, an entity shall recognise an asset from the costs incurred to fulfil a contract only if those costs 
meet all of the following criteria: 
•  the costs relate directly to a contract; 
•  the costs generate or enhance resources of the entity that will be used in satisfying (or in continuing to 
satisfy) performance obligations in the future; and 
•  the costs are expected to be recovered. 
It is the practice of the company’s sector that these costs usually consist of pre-operating costs that are 
recognised by customers and included in precise contract items or are not explicitly recognised and are covered 
by the contract profit. Formal recognition of these costs implies that, when they are incurred, control of the 
asset provided for in the contract is transferred. Therefore, they cannot be recognised as assets and contribute 
to the stage of completion. 
When the contract provides for their explicit recognition and the above three criteria are met, the pre-operating 
costs are recognised as assets and amortised on a systematic basis that is consistent with the pattern of 
transfer of control of the goods and/or services to the customer. 
In addition, IFRS 15 defines all those costs that, by their nature, do not contribute to the stage of completion 
as, although they are referred to in the contract and can be recovered, they do not contribute to generating or 
enhancing the resources that will be used to satisfy the performance obligations or to transfer of control of the 
good and/or service to the customer. 
   413 