 
•  financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI); 
•  financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL). 
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value. Trade receivables that do not contain a significant 
financing component are measured at their transaction price. 
After initial recognition, financial assets that generate contractual cash flows that are solely payments of 
principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding are measured at amortised cost if they are held 
within a business model whose objective is to hold them in order to collect contractual cash flows (hold to 
collect business model). Under the amortised cost method, the financial assets’ amount at initial recognition is 
decreased by principal repayments, any loss allowance and cumulated amortisation of the difference between 
that initial amount and the maturity amount.  
Amortisation is calculated using the effective interest rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash 
payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to the gross carrying amount of the financial 
asset at initial recognition. 
Loans and receivables and other financial assets at amortised cost are recognised net of the related loss 
allowance. 
Debt instruments held within a business model whose objective is to collect contractual cash flows and sell 
financial assets (hold to collect and sell model) are measured at fair value through other comprehensive 
income. Fair value gains and losses on these financial assets are recognised in other comprehensive income 
(OCI). The cumulative fair value gains and losses previously recognised in OCI are reclassified to profit or loss 
when the financial asset is derecognised. Interest income calculated using the effective interest method, 
exchange differences and impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss. 
Debt instruments that are not measured at amortised cost or FVTOCI are measured at fair value through profit 
or loss.  
Financial assets that are transferred are derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the 
financial asset expire or are transferred to third parties. 
Impairment losses on financial assets 
The company tests the recoverable amount of debt instruments not measured at fair value through profit or 
loss using the expected credit loss model. 
The new model entails development of judgement about the impact of changes in economic factors on the 
expected credit losses, which are weighted by probability of occurrence. 
Credit risk is that deriving from the company’s exposure to potential losses arising from the customers’ (which 
are mostly governments or state bodies) non-compliance with their obligations.  
Management of this risk is complex, starting as early as the assessment of offers, through a careful analysis 
of the characteristics of the countries in which the company’s activities should be carried out and the customers, 
which are usually state or similar bodies, requesting an offer.   
   415 