 
assessment of the stock options that will effectively vest in favour of the qualifying employees. Fair value is 
determined using the share price at the grant date. 
Income taxes 
Current taxes are provided for using the enacted tax rates and laws ruling in Italy and other countries in which 
the company operates, including through its branches, based on the best estimate of the taxable profit for the 
year. 
Beginning from 2004, the company has joined the national tax consolidation system, as the consolidating party, 
which is regulated by the conditions set out in agreements drawn up by the participating companies. 
The agreements provide that tax losses transferred by the subsidiaries give rise to a benefit for them if and to 
the extent that they will be offset as part of the national tax consolidation system, considering any losses of the 
parent and/or other companies participating in the system. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated on the basis of the temporary differences between the tax base 
of an asset or liability and its carrying amount in the statement of financial position. Deferred tax assets are 
recognised when the company holds their recovery to be probable. 
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and, to the extent necessary, is 
decreased when it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available in the future to use all or 
part of the related benefit. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the 
asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted at 
the reporting date. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities, respectively. 
In the case of transactions recognised directly in equity, the related deferred tax asset or liability also affects 
equity. 
Provisions for risks and charges 
In accordance with IAS 37, the company makes accruals to provisions for risks and charges when the following 
conditions exist: 
•  the company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) at the reporting date as a result of a past event 
where an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation; 
•  it is probable that the obligation (through an outflow of resources) will have to be settled; 
•  a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. 
When the time value is material and the obligation payment dates can be estimated reliably, the amount 
recognised as the provision equals the pre-tax future cash flows (i.e., forecast outflows) discounted at a rate 
that reflects the present market value and risks specific to the liability. 
The increase in the provision due to discounting is recognised as a financial expense. 
   418 