 
The actual results may differ from those estimated due to uncertainties underlying the assumptions and the 
conditions on which the estimates are based. 
Fundamental assumptions about the future and other reasons for uncertainty when making the estimates at the 
reporting date that may lead to material adjustments to the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities are 
described in the specific section of the Directors’ report on the main risk factors and uncertainties. 
Scope of the separate financial statements 
Joint operations 
The company is involved in the following main joint operations: Civil Work Group (Saudi Arabia), Arge Tulfes 
Pfons (Austria), South Al Mutlaa (Kuwait), NGE Genie Civil S.a.s. - Salini Impregilo S.p.A. and Salini Impregilo 
- NGE Genie Civil S.a.s.. 
Salini Impregilo has a 52% interest in the first joint operation, which is engaged in the civil works for the Riyadh 
metro.  
The second joint operation is 49% held by the company and is engaged in the construction of the last section 
of the Brenner-Innsbruck tunnel.  
South Al Mutlaa was incorporated in 2016 and is 55% held by Salini Impregilo. It is constructing primary 
urbanisation works to build a new residential area in a 12 thousand hectares site as part of the South Al Mutlaa 
Housing Project. 
NGE Genie Civil S.a.s. - Salini Impregilo S.p.A. (France) is 50% held by Salini Impregilo and is engaged in the 
civil works for the Paris Metro as part of the Gran Paris Express project (Line 14, Lot 4).  
Salini Impregilo - NGE Genie Civil S.a.s (France) is 65% held by Salini Impregilo and is engaged in the civil 
works for the Paris Metro as part of the Gran Paris Express project (Line 16, lot 2). 
The above operations are governed by joint control arrangements as resolutions of the governing bodies require 
a unanimous vote. Despite being separate vehicles, they are structured in a way that ensures ensure 
transparency of their rights and obligations with respect to Salini Impregilo.  
 
Change in Condotte’s interest in COCIV  
The COCIV consortium (the “consortium” or “COCIV”) was assigned the project for the definitive and executive 
design and construction of the high speed/capacity Milan - Genoa railway line section/Giovi third railway crossing 
with an agreement signed with TAV S.p.A. on 16 March 1992 (the “agreement”) and subsequent rider signed 
with Ferroviaria Italiana S.p.A. (“RFI”), which replaced TAV S.p.A. after it merged into RFI, on 11 November 
2011 (the “rider”). 
COCIV’s membership structure varied over time due to a number of events that led to the following structure on 
19 December 2019: 
 
   421 