 
relation to the first resolution during the interlocutory stage, when Condotte’s second, serious and repeated 
breach occurred, the consortium modified the structure of its resolutions, progressively and separately dealing 
firstly with its internal effects (to which RFI is unrelated) and secondly with its external effects and the consequent 
by-laws amendment, subjecting only the latter resolution to RFI’s consent. 
Condotte challenged the first resolution pursuant to the arbitration clause in article 27 of the by-laws. It also filed 
a petition under article 700 of the Italian Code of Civil Procedure with the Genoa Court seeking - inter alia - 
suspension of the effects of the first resolution. The Genoa Court dismissed the case on 28 June 2019, and the 
decision was upheld in Condotte’s appeal. The arbitration panel appointed to resolve the dispute on the first 
resolution commenced by Condotte was formed on 13 January 2020. 
In the meantime, acknowledging the dispute about the first resolution commenced by Condotte, RFI informed 
the consortium that it would give its consent to the amendments to the by-laws concerning the modified 
membership structure resulting from the first resolution only after settlement of the dispute, given that the fact 
that the resolution included both issues and not wanting to take a position on the dispute. 
As  mentioned  above,  however,  Condotte  reiterated  its  breach  of  contract  in  connection  with  the  sixth 
construction lot, again failing to provide its counter-guarantees required by the Consortium (since its interest 
remained at 31% as the first resolution was ineffective during the period in which the condition had to be 
satisfied). 
As a result, COCIV’s board of representatives adopted the consequent resolutions on 19 December 2019, after 
having issued the required notice to comply, which remained unsuccessful. As indicated above, as an 
amendment to the first resolution, the board of representatives has structured these resolutions differently, in 
order not to involve RFI directly in the part relating to Condotte’s failure to comply. In particular: 
•  a resolution (the “second resolution” or “reduction resolution”) adopted also with the participation of 
Condotte (which, however, was precluded from voting under the by-laws), on the basis of the breaches 
that had occurred, reduced Condotte’s interest to the minimum interest of 0.001%, at the same time 
excluding Condotte’s representatives from the consortium bodies. 
This resolution took immediate effect and solely affected the consortium’s internal relationships; 
•  another resolution (the “third resolution” or “reallocation resolution”), passed by the board in its modified 
composition as per the second resolution: 
-  ordered the proportionate allocation of the interest previously held by Condotte (including the rights 
attached thereto) to the other two members that replaced Condotte when it failed to comply. This 
resolution took immediate effect and solely affected the consortium members;  
-  approved the amendment to the by-laws relating to the new interest percentages in the consortium, 
subjecting its effectiveness to RFI’s required consent and, hence, to the reallocation resolution’s 
production of external effects, which is its enforcement vis-a-vis RFI; this enforcement would trigger 
the enforceability of the amendment to the by-laws. 
   423 