 
The impairment test of the item “Equity investments”, carried out also to assess the need for any reversals of 
previously recognised impairment losses, has been performed on an individual basis, considering each 
investee’s specific operating objectives. 
Based on such approach, the item can be analysed as follows: 
 
(€’000)  31 December 2018  31 December 2019  Variation 
Investments in SPEs  481,699  615,973  134,274 
Other investments  842,431  697,366  (145,065) 
Total   1,324,130  1,313,339  (10,791) 
 
Special purpose entities (SPEs) are legal entities set up specifically and solely to carry out construction 
contracts that Salini Impregilo is not expected to carry out directly and in which it has an interest equal to its 
share of the tender. These entities have a corporate structure compliant with the customers’ requirements as 
communicated during the tender procedure and considering the specific legal context of the country in which 
the contract will be performed. They are classified depending on whether they are: (i) SPEs, the profit or loss 
of which are allocated to their venturers in line with their interests as provided for by law (i.e., Italian-based 
consortia and consortium companies which operate on a “recharges of costs” basis), and (ii) other SPEs for 
which this allocation is not provided for by law. 
Due to the periodic allocation of the contract profit or loss to the venturers, the SPEs in item (i) always 
substantially reach breakeven point. Any losses recorded in the contracts performed by these entities are 
recognised by the venturers upon allocation of the contract profits and losses. For the SPEs in item (ii), the 
existence of any losses should be considered in the separate financial statements of Salini Impregilo as their 
contract profit or loss is included in the consolidated financial statements only. The contracts performed by 
these SPEs are therefore considered when testing the company’s investment for impairment. Specifically, the 
SPEs’ financial statements, which include the estimated contract profit or loss and are prepared in accordance 
with the IFRS as interpreted by the company’s accounting policies, are considered as they show the entity’s 
estimated cash flows. 
The company adjusted the impairment losses in 2019 through the provision for risks on equity investments 
related to the SPEs CMT Copenaghen Metro (€5.3 million), Grupo ICT II (€0.9 million) and Salini Australia Pty 
(€2.3 million).   
Following the amendments to IAS 28 (applicable from 1 January 2019), the loan given to the SPE Grupo Unidos 
por el Canal S.A. (Panama) was tested for impairment as it was disbursed to financially support the SPE and, 
therefore,  increases  the  equity  investment’s  carrying  amount.  The  impairment  test  was  performed  by 
discounting the expected cash flows using the assumed settlement of the claims and other assets recognised 
by the SPE as the drivers. Specifically, the cash flows comprised the operating expenses (mainly legal fees) 
and collections expected in line with the estimated payment timeline of the claims. 
The discount rate (4.2% - 4.5%) was defined considering: 
   433 