 
Impairment - Venezuela 
Assisted by its independent experts, the company estimated the impairment losses on its Venezuelan financial 
assets in line with the approach taken in the 2018 financial statements. 
The impairment model selected is the discounted cash flow (DCF) model in line with the amortised cost approach 
of IFRS 9. Estimating amortised cost usually requires the preparation of a possible repayment plan that is 
economically and financially feasible for the debtor. 
Given the uncertainty about the expected collection rates and the time involved (i.e., the length of the litigation), 
the company prepared 16 scenarios using various combinations of inputs. 
It then defined the following parameters: 
•  the nominal amount reduction; 
•  the total repayment delay; 
•  the repayment structure (equal or increasing instalments). 
The interval (50% - 73% compared to 37% - 51% in 2018) for the nominal amount reduction was defined using 
the default episode sample obtained from last year’s impairment test (2018).  
This was decided to properly factor in the following considerations: 
•  the stagnant political, social and economic scenario for the third consecutive year; 
•  the negative signals about the current and possible future oil prices and the significant fall in the prices 
of the Venezuelan government bonds in the second half of 2019. 
The sample included the “extreme” default episodes of 2018 (i.e., Panama ‘96 and Bolivia ‘88). 
With respect to the recoverable amount of the company’s exposure to the Venezuelan government agencies, at 
31 December 2019, its gross exposure amounts to €643.4 million, of which loan assets of €120.2 million and 
consideration accrued on work performed of approximately €523.2 million (the latter amount comprises €318.7 
million already invoiced and recognised under trade receivables and €204.5 million recognised under contract 
assets net of contract liabilities). 
As a result of the assessments made on the basis of that set out above, the company’s net exposure to the 
Venezuelan government agencies amounts to €128.7 million, of which loan assets of €24.0 million and 
consideration accrued on work performed of approximately €104.7 million (the latter amount comprises €63.8 
million already invoiced and recognised under trade receivables and €40.9 million recognised under contract 
assets net of contract liabilities). 
Given the high level of uncertainty implicit in this type of valuation, the company engaged a second independent 
expert to assess the reasonableness of the results obtained from the use of the above model and its 
reasonableness was confirmed. 
 
 
 
   443 