 
Most of the company’s production is carried out through SPEs, set up with other partners that have participated 
with Salini Impregilo in tenders. The SPEs carry out the related contracts on behalf of its partners.  
The other transactions refer to costs for design and similar activities, incurred when presenting bids and for 
recently started contracts. They are also governed by specific agreements and carried out on an arm’s length 
basis and, where applicable, in line with the contract terms.  
Their effects on the statements of financial position and profit or loss are shown together with the related 
contract, when appropriate. 
The company completed the sale of its investment in the Dutch subsidiary Impregilo International Infrastructures 
N.V. to Lane Group during the year.  
Transactions with directors, statutory auditors and key management personnel are shown below:  
             
  2018  2019 
Fees and  Termination  Total  Fees and  Termination  Total 
remuneration  benefits and  remuneration   benefits and 
post- post-
 
(€’000)  employment  employment 
benefits  benefits 
 
Directors and statutory auditors  7,522   7,522  7,180   7,180 
Key management personnel  6,449     6,449  11,785     11,785 
 
Total  13,971  -  13,971  18,965  -  18,965 
   
              
             
The company’s production is carried out mainly through special purpose entities, which, depending on Salini 
Impregilo’s share in their contracts, qualify as subsidiaries or associates. In many cases, they have corporate 
structures that directly and continuously allocate the profits and losses on contracts to their investors, including 
by “reallocating costs and fees”. They can be considered to be “transparent” considering the original contractual 
relationship whereby Salini Impregilo, together with the other investors, depending on the type of organisation 
selected during the tender stage, is the direct counterparty of the customer and the SPE acts in its own name 
but on behalf of its investors, including vis-à-vis third party suppliers. Accordingly, transactions between Salini 
Impregilo and the SPEs, in which it has an investment, are not presented in this section but are summarised 
with other transactions with subsidiaries and associates in the annex “Intragroup transactions - Salini Impregilo 
S.p.A.”.  
   
   484 