 
The choices we made to either develop the most innovative products and processes with our partners or acquire 
them on the market have been fundamental to become more competitive and to offer our clients engineering 
solutions and products at better prices. We carried out many projects during the year, both during the bidding 
stage and contract performance stage, to develop highly innovative technical solutions at the cutting edge of 
today’s engineering boundaries, such as for example: 
•  Australia: the Snowy 2.0 generation and pumping plant with installed capacity of 2,000 MW, which has 
entailed the construction of a power station 800 metres underground using first-of-a-kind excavation 
and support techniques; 
•  Argentina: the Riachuelo environmental restoration plant for which we developed the innovative Riser 
Concept technology (and for which Salini Impregilo has filed a patent application) for the vertical bottom-
up drilling of the underwater tunnel; 
•  USA: Texas High Speed Rail (Dallas-Houston), an approximate 380 km high speed railway line with 
190  km  of  tunnels  and  works  to  be  completed  in  five  years,  thanks  to  a  state-of-the-art  work 
industrialisation system; 
•  France - Grand Paris Express Metro, for which we have trialled for the first time the production of fiber-
reinforced concrete segments for the EPB TBM. 
Our Group underwent great change in 2019 with a new shareholding base, a new corporate governance 
structure and a new brand identity with a new name, which emphasises our focus on the value of the team (We) 
and our mission as builders (build).  
Our Group will develop under our new name “Webuild” and is even more determined to satisfy the expectations 
of our investors and shareholders, to provide our clients with innovation solutions for sustainable mobility, the 
production of renewable hydro energy, water management and building of green buildings. We intend to make 
an active contribution to progress towards 11 out of the total 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG).  
During the year, we also engineered processes to become more efficient and reorganised some units to better 
monitor our internal procedures, focusing in particular on core areas like the Operations, Commercial/Business 
Development, Supply Chain, HR, Organisation and Systems units. The changes to the organisational model 
were flanked by specific process review projects like the “Performance Dialogue” system, adopted by contracts 
worldwide to allow the coordinated monitoring and control of their operations. We also introduced new 
applications, including an integrated commercial and bidding data and information flows management system, 
and systems for electronic signatures in documents. We rolled out digital procurement solutions and a HR 
process digitalisation project.  
We intend to continue this trajectory, bolstered by our achievements of 2019.  
We are proud to present the results of our business strategy presented for the first time by business area: 
Sustainable Mobility, Clean Hydro Energy, Clean Water and Green Buildings. Of our 2019 revenue of €5.33 
billion, a very impressive over 85% was from projects that contribute directly to progress towards the SGDs, 
while more than 55% of our projects were low-carbon, which means that they have a decreased carbon footprint. 
6 
 