 
Forrestfield Airport Link                                                            
On 28 April 2016, as leader (with 80%) of a joint venture with NRW Pty Ltd (20%), Salini Impregilo was awarded 
the contract to design, construct and maintain the Forrestfield Airport Link by the Public Transport Authority of 
Western Australia. The project includes construction of a new metro line to connect Forrestfield, and hence the 
airport, to the existing Perth network through an 8 km underground line.  Once completed, the project will provide 
sustainable transportation of up to 20 thousand passengers a day with significant benefits in terms of less traffic, 
pollution and GHG emissions.  
As well as the design and construction of the three new metro stations, the contract also includes 10 years of 
maintenance of the infrastructure. It is worth approximately AUD1.26 billion.   
 
Europe 
France 
Reference context and market scenario  
France is one of the countries where the Group operates with the highest sustainability levels. It is ranked 4th 
in the SDG Global Rank. With respect to the goals that are most pertinent to the Group’s business areas in this 
country, France shows progress in most of them, although it still faces tough challenges with respect to the fight 
against climate change. 
AREAS FOR IMPROVEMENT RELATED TO 
SDG STATUS TREND THE GROUP'S BUSINESS AREAS
Goal not yet achieved Improving, but progress  Population with access to adequate 
92.1%
Significant challenges remain insufficient wastewater treatment systems
Goal not yet achieved Improving, but progress  Renewable energy in final 
13.5%
Significant challenges remain insufficient consumption
Goal not yet achieved On track to achieve the goal  Quality of road infrastructure (1-7)
5.4
Significant challenges remain in 2030
Goal not yet achieved Improving, but progress  Satisfaction with public transport
62.9%
Significant challenges remain insufficient
Goal not yet achieved Stable or with insufficient 
Per capita CO emissions (ton) 4.6
Very significant challenges remain improvement 2
 
 
From an economic standpoint, France is undergoing a modest growth phase and the IMF’s forecasts for 2019 
are for a growth rate of 1.3%. The forecast for 2020 is a contraction of 1.1%. Its infrastructure development plan 
envisages public spending concentrated mainly in the transport sector and private works while the construction 
sector is also very buoyant (building blocks, supermarkets, iconic buildings, etc.).  
The Global Infrastructure Hub estimates that investments of around USD1,380 billion will be made in the water-
energy and mobility sectors in the 2020-2040 period.  
The Group has both a local French branch and investments in the SEP (sociètè en partecipation) set up to carry 
out the projects won in 2018. 
51 
 