 
 
c.  we reviewed the reports of the control, risk and sustainability committee periodically; 
d.  we reviewed the internal audit reports on the internal units of both the branches and head office and 
the  working  of  the  Group’s  internal  controls  and  risk  management;  we  also  monitored  the 
implementation of remedial actions identified as a result of the internal audit; we reviewed the 
internal audit report prepared every six months by the internal audit supervisor on the activities 
performed during the period, the methods applied to manage risks inside the company, compliance 
with risk containment plans, the strategic containment and efficiency objectives and the internal audit 
supervisor’s positive assessment of the internal controls and risk management given the company’s 
and its key subsidiaries’ characteristics and risk profile. Specifically, we expressed our favourable 
opinion on the organisational, administrative and accounting structure and the internal control and 
risk management system of the company and its key subsidiaries; 
e.  we  reviewed  the  reports  of  the  compliance  department  on  the  prevention,  monitoring  and 
management of the risk of non-compliance with the law and anti-corruption regulations. 
We also: 
-  checked that the company has an organisational, management and control model which complies with 
the provisions of Legislative decree no. 231/01 and the guidelines issued by the sector associations, 
most recently updated by the board of directors on 14 November 2018;  
-  checked that the company has an anti-corruption model, which the board of directors last updated on 
26 September 2018; 
-  examined the supervisory body’s regular reports as required by Legislative decree no. 231/2001, which 
summarise its activities of the year; we also met with the body’s members; 
-  met the statutory auditors of the wholly-controlled subsidiaries Fisia Italimpianti S.p.A. and Imprepar 
S.p.A. to exchange information about, inter alia, the subsidiaries’ operations and compliance with 
instructions received from the company, their internal controls and organisation, the composition and 
activities performed by the supervisory bodies, committees and internal audit department. 
During our work, we: 
a)  did not identify any critical situations or facts that would have led us to believe that the company’s 
internal controls or risk management were inadequate during the year; 
b)  to the extent of our duties, we deem that the above model is suitable to prevent the crimes covered 
by the aforesaid regulations and has been implemented properly, based also on the information 
provided by the chairperson of the supervisory body and the reports referred to above which stated 
that no censurable events or violations or the model took place in 2019; 
c)  acknowledged the board of directors’ positive assessment of the adequacy and effective working of 
internal controls and risk management in 2019.  
 
11. Adequacy of the administrative-accounting system and its reliability 
To the extent of our duties, we monitored the adequacy of the administrative and accounting system and 
its ability to correctly show the company’s operations and the activities undertaken as coordinated by the 
manager in charge of financial reporting to comply with Law no. 262/05 on guidelines for the protection 
of savings and regulation of financial markets as subsequently amended and integrated by: 
a)  obtaining information from the manager in charge of financial reporting and the different department 
heads, including through participation in the activities carried out by the control, risk and sustainability 
committee;  
b)  obtaining information about the procedures adopted and instructions issued by the company for the 
531 
 