 
 
In addition to that set out in paragraph 3, we also: 
a)  received the additional report from the independent auditors pursuant to article 11.2 of Regulation 
(EU) no. 537/2014 on key audit matters and any significant deficiencies identified in the internal 
controls over financial reporting stating that no significant deficiencies were identified; 
b)  acknowledged KPMG’s statement of its independence pursuant to article 6 of Regulation (EU) no. 
537/2014  attached  to  the  additional  report,  which  did  not  report  situations  that  could  have 
compromised its independence; 
c)  discussed the risks related to the independent auditors’ independence and the measures adopted to 
limit these risks in accordance with article 6.2.b) of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014. 
 
14. Compliance with the Code of Conduct of the Corporate Governance Committee of Listed companies 
We checked that the company complies with the Code of Conduct of Listed Companies approved in March 
2006 and most recently amended in July 2018 (the “Code”). 
In accordance with article 149.1.c-bis) of the TUF, we checked that the corporate governance rules 
provided for in the Code were effectively applied and specifically: 
-  the correct application of the criteria and procedures used by the board of directors to assess the 
independence of its members; 
-  the company’s corporate governance structure.  
Specifically, we agreed with the board of directors’ decision not to perform the 2019 self-assessment, after 
the preliminary checks performed by the compensation and nominating committee given the significant 
changes made to the company’s shareholder structure and the board of directors in November and 
December 2019 as a result of the investment agreement which led to the co-optation of five new directors 
on 6 December 2019. 
The board of directors presented its decision and reasons in the report on corporate governance and the 
ownership structure, to which reference should be made. 
We examined (i) the 2019 remuneration policy and checked that it complied with the provisions of article 6 
of the Code of Conduct and (ii) the remuneration report approved by the board of directors in its meeting 
of 13 March 2020. We checked that the latter report included the disclosure required by article 123-ter of 
the TUF and article 84-quater of Consob regulation no. 11971/1999 and compliance with the most recent 
regulatory and legislative requirements following enactment of the Shareholder Rights Directive II. 
We note that the board of directors examined the recommendations made by the Corporate Governance 
Committee in its letter dated 19 December 2019 from the committee chairperson, Patrizia Grieco, to the 
chairpersons of the boards of directors of Italian listed companies and copied to the chief executive officers 
and chairpersons of the boards of statutory auditors in order to take the necessary resolutions. In turn, we 
examined the recommendations in so far as they extended to the board of statutory auditors.  
We monitored the activities of the control, risk and sustainability committee, the compensation and 
nominating committee, the committee for related-party transactions and the strategic committee by 
attending their meetings. 
**** 
In addition to that set out above, we: 
-  checked the compliance of the board’s composition with the law in terms of gender and its adequacy 
533 
 