 
 
Tajikistan 
Reference context and market scenario  
Tajikistan is ranked 71st in the SDG Global Rank. It shows progress in the majority of the goals that are most 
pertinent to the Group’s business areas in this country, although it still faces tough challenges with respect to, 
in particular, water and mobility.  
AREAS FOR IMPROVEMENT RELATED TO 
SDG STATUS TREND THE GROUP'S BUSINESS AREAS
Goal not yet achieved Improving, but progress  Population with access to drinking 
74.1%
Very significant challenges remain insufficient water
Goal not yet achieved On track to achieve the goal in  Renewable energy in final 
44.7%
Residual challenges remain 2030 consumption
Goal not yet achieved Quality of road infrastructure (1-7)
Deteriorating 4.5
Very significant challenges remain
Goal not yet achieved Improving, but progress  Satisfaction with public transport
81.7%
Significant challenges remain insufficient
Goal not yet achieved On track to achieve the goal in 
Per capita CO emissions (ton) 0.6
Residual challenges remain 2030 2
 
 
In 2019, this country’s GDP grew in line with the previous year’s trend to 3.7% from 3.5%. The inflation rate was 
7.6%. 
The Rogun Hydropower Project assigned to the Group is of fundamental importance to boost the country’s 
economic growth over the next few years with the export of electrical energy generated by the hydroelectric 
power plant. 
The country’s government’s efforts to engage in relations with its counterparties of the surrounding countries 
have been successful. For the first time in nine years, Tajikistan has started to export electrical energy to 
Uzbekistan. The country intends to put to use its vast hydropower potential to meet demand from South Asian 
countries. It is engaged in additional negotiations for the sale of electricity energy counting on the near 
completion of the early generation stage of the Rogun Hydropower Project, when electrical energy will be 
provided although at a lower output than when the project has been completed. 
Outlook for 2020 
To complete financing of the project, the government has already approved, inter alia, the issue of bonds for 
USD1 billion (an additional USD500 million to those already placed). During 2020, other lots should be assigned 
to the Group in accordance with the signed framework agreement. 
   
58 
 