 
2019 saw the completion of some extraordinary projects, such as the Cityringen Metro in Copenhagen, 
Denmark, which provides 85% of the capital’s population with access to a sustainable mobility network just 600 
metres from their doorstep. In Italy, we managed to relaunch the strategic high speed Genoa - Milan railway 
project and took on tough challenges, such as the new Genoa Bridge, being built in record time thanks to an 
extremely tight-knit team, the deployment of the fast-track method and incredible synergies with our client and 
the institutions: providing a tangible example of Italy’s enormous potential to provide our country with modern 
and efficient infrastructure.  
With respect to our order backlog and new orders, we received a record €8.1 billion of new orders, of which 
more than 75% acquired in markets with a low risk profile such as Australia, North America and Europe.   
We are very pleased to have entered new markets like Norway and Canada, demonstrating our ability to 
penetrate our targeted markets and the validity of the industrial transaction pursued through Progetto Italia in 
the case of Canada, thanks to the experience contributed by Astaldi. 
After completing Lane’s turnaround, we have a foothold in many US states and, alongside the ongoing projects 
in the sustainable mobility and clean water business areas, we have commenced the preliminary work to build 
the first high speed railway line in the United States which will connect Houston to Dallas in Texas in just 90 
minutes. We will achieve this by applying all our know-how acquired in the construction of large high speed 
railway projects around the world.   
We are delighted to announce that we have increased our share of the Australian market which we continue to 
invest in. Thanks to important projects such as Snowy 2.0, we are one of the global infrastructure leaders in the 
water and hydroelectricity business areas, a source of inexpensive renewable energy.  
Our results and new challenges are and will be achieved/met thanks to a crucial, unique asset of which we are 
extremely proud: our people. During this year, they applied their unique expertise, acquired on the most complex 
projects in the world, and demonstrated their ability to work together to achieve our business goals. I would like 
to especially thank them for their focus on our business objectives and concurrently roll out complex corporate 
operations, like Progetto Italia, this year.  
In 2019, we continued to invest in our people and provide them with better working conditions. We strengthened 
our commitment to inclusion and diversity. We also introduced a new leadership model in early 2020, identifying 
the managerial skills which, together with our people’s technical know-how, are essential to achieve the           
Group’s strategic goals. We continued to invest in projects to upskill our resources through assessment 
programmes, business coaching and our Global Managerial Academy, officially opened in February 2020 for 
key figures and internal talents. We also continue to invest in our partnerships with universities in Italy and 
abroad and in professional training for younger students who consider us as one of the best employers in Italy 
for university graduates and professionals.  
Starting from February 2020, the world’s global production system and the business world’s capacity to operate 
has been sorely tested by the spread of COVID-19. With its escalation in Italy, the Group immediately adopted 
measures to combat this and to protect its employees’ health both in the offices and at work sites, while 
concurrently managing to meet our clients’ requirements and ensure activities could continue at the work sites 
in safe conditions together with the trade unions. 
7 
 