 
counterparties, is fundamental. This also includes any internal and external fraud risks, and, more generally, the 
compliance with procedures and policies established by the Group to govern its operations.  
With respect to the aforementioned factors, Salini Impregilo implements a regulatory risk monitoring and 
management policy in order to minimise the impact of such risk, through a multi-level control system that entails 
collaborative and ongoing liaison with relevant counterparties and business units affected by regulatory 
developments and the comprehensive assessment of any potential impacts.  
Operational risks 
These are risks that could jeopardize value creation and are due to an inefficient and/or ineffective management 
of the Group’s core business, particularly those linked to bid management and actual execution of contracts. 
The various risk areas that fall into this class include bid design and planning, logistics and inventory 
management, as well as those linked to the management of IT systems, planning and reporting, effective supply 
chain and personnel management, including with respect to health and safety, the environment, human rights 
and local communities. The Consolidated Non-Financial Statement in Part II of this report provides more 
information about sustainability risks.  
These risks arise during the bidding stage and/or performance of contracts, should group policies and 
procedures not be sufficiently adequate for the management of risk factors linked to the level of complexity of 
the project or unforeseeable events.  
To this end, the Group intends to monitor such risks starting at the bidding stage of each contract with a 
risk/benefit analysis of the project in the event of its award and its impact on the portfolio structure, both in terms 
of risk concentration and overall risk profile. At this time, Salini Impregilo, as part of a wider process, prepares a 
pre-bid risk assessment aimed at identifying potential risks and impacts linked to the project, as well as the 
necessary mitigation and/or contingency measures to counter them. The risk surveillance activity is then 
performed again at tender stage and monitored and updated during contract execution in order to promptly 
detect the risk exposure development and swiftly implement adequate remediation measures. 
*** 
As part of the aforementioned framework for the identification and classification of risks applicable to group 
operations, Salini Impregilo has adopted a cross-functional approach for the analysis of risk dimensions that are 
considered more relevant due to the specific features of its business. These dimensions include various risk 
areas identified and belonging to Salini Impregilo’s risk universe. 
Country risk 
The Group pursues its objectives by operating almost everywhere in the world, leveraging business opportunities 
in different countries and hence exposing itself to the risks resulting from the characteristics and conditions 
dictated by them, such as the political, economic and social scenario, local regulations, taxation and operational 
complexity and, last but not least, work and safety conditions.  
Being aware of and constantly monitoring country risk through specific indicators enables the Group first and 
foremost to define informed commercial strategies, as well as to gain an optimal understanding of the operating 
scenario and, therefore, adopt precautions and/or implement actions aimed at removing barriers and mitigate 
potential threats.      
66 
 