 
Company organisation 
Salini Impregilo’s corporate governance model is a traditional management-type model and complies with 
international best practices. It is an essential tool in ensuring the efficient management of the Group and effective 
controls over its activities, in line with the Group’s goals of creating value for shareholders and protecting 
stakeholder interests. 
The Company’s governance system is based on integrity and transparency. It complies with the relevant legal 
requirements, Consob (the Italian commission for listed companies and the stock exchange) regulations and the 
recommendations of the Code of Conduct for listed companies (July 2018 edition). 
At the end of 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors had 15 members, including five women (33.3%) and nine 
who met the independence requirements (60%). The Board of Directors has four committees: the Strategic 
Committee, the Control, Risk and Sustainability Committee, the Compensation and Nominating Committee and 
the Committee for Related-Party Transactions. The Control, Risk and Sustainability Committee, comprised of 
six  independent  directors,  examines  this  Consolidated  Non-financial  Statement  in  connection  with  the 
Company’s activities and engagement with its stakeholders.  
The Company has an organisational and management model based on a system of principles (Code of Ethics 
and Policies) and management and control tools (risk management, procedures and controls) designed to 
supervise significant non-financial topics in line with the regulations applicable in the countries where it operates, 
standard principles and international guidelines.  
Salini Impregilo is a signatory of the UN’s Global Compact, the largest global sustainability initiative that requires 
companies to align their operations and strategies with ten universally-recognised principles on human rights, 
labour practices, the environment and anti-corruption. 
 
Code of Ethics 
The Company has a Code of Ethics, which sets out its principles and rules of conduct that people who work for 
or with Salini Impregilo are required to adhere to during their everyday work. 
The Code applies to the directors, statutory auditors, managers and employees of Salini Impregilo as well as all 
those parties that directly or indirectly, temporarily or on an ongoing basis work with the Company, to the extent 
of their duties and responsibilities. 
They are required to comply with the laws and regulations applicable in the various geographical areas in which 
the Company operates and to base their conduct on that set out in the Code. 
The Code of Ethics has three sections: 
Ethical principles: the reference principles to which Salini Impregilo employees are required to adhere: integrity, 
honesty, reliability and sustainability.  
Rules of conduct: the practical implementation of the ethical principles incumbent on all parties required to 
comply with the Code; the rules of conduct set out in the Code cover non-financial aspects dealt with in this 
Statement.  
98 