 
 
Management and control system 
The Company has an internal control and risk management system incorporating rules, procedures and 
organisational structures to ensure healthy, ethical business practices that are consistent with its objectives 
through appropriate procedures to identify, measure, manage and monitor the main risks. 
This system is based on standards which require that: 
-  business activities be based on applicable internal and external rules, can be mapped and documented;  
-  the allocation and exercise of powers as part of a decision-making process be commensurate with the 
positions of responsibility and the size and/or significance of the underlying transaction;  
-  those parties that take or implement decisions, that record transactions and those that are required to 
perform the controls over such transactions provided for by law and procedures envisaged by the 
internal controls be different parties;  
-  confidentiality and compliance with the personal data protection legislation be ensured.  
Salini Impregilo has also voluntarily adopted an Integrated QEHS (Quality, Environment, Health and Safety) 
Management System in compliance with the international standards ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and ISO 45001, as 
well as an Anti-Corruption Compliance System pursuant to ISO 37001. Its system is certified by an independent 
expert.  
The quality, environment, health and safety management system certifications cover: 
•  the definitive and executive designs, works management and performance to build large works, civil 
and industrial works and related technological systems;  
•  the design and management of integrated operation and maintenance services for infrastructure, civil 
and industrial buildings, related technological systems and electromedical devices. 
The quality management system also applies to the coordination of the general contractor activities carried out 
in accordance with Title III of Legislative decree no. 50/2016 and Legislative decree no. 56/2017 as subsequently 
amended and integrated. 
The scope of these systems includes all the work sites where the Company operates and all types of company 
in which it is involved. 
The anti-corruption management system covers the design, construction, restructuring and maintenance, on its 
own behalf or for third parties, of civil engineering, industrial, infrastructure and plant engineering works. It 
applies to the Group’s core and strategic processes managed by the Italian offices and the Company’s 
operations, including those of the foreign branches and directly-managed work sites. Centralisation of the main 
processes exposed to corruption risks (including business development and procurement) has meant that the 
related controls are carried out as part of the certification. 
100 