s
ar
pill
ur 
O
Listening and dialogue
102-43
One important listening tool in the Company is the climate  Internal communication 
survey, which makes it possible to identify areas of improve-
ment in relation to three key topics – well-being, engage- Enel considers internal communications to be an impor- ss
ee
nn
ment, and safety – and suggestions on topics and aspects of  tant support in creating the corporate culture and in both  bobo
kk
cc
working life. Following the 2018 survey the identified action  organisational and people growth, soliciting and promoting  baba
G G 
plans are currently under development. To answer the is- the exchange of information, know-how and experience.  ESES
sues that emerged from the climate survey concerning work- Several global campaigns were promoted in 2019, including 
life balance and well-being, a process of in-depth analysis of  the launch of Enel People, a new section of the website 
the digital detox topic was launched in 2019. Further to anal- www.enel.com dedicated to employer branding and talent 
ysis of studies and research into the impacts of hyperconnec- acquisition. The existing platform has been completely rein-
tivity, a set of actions was defined, also with the participation  vented and an interactive journey has been recreated, mak-
of Enel people in dedicated focus groups, in order to facilitate  ing it possible to explore life in the organisation and get an 
the transition from a hyperconnectivity culture to a culture of  idea of the environment in which Enel people work all over 
e
responsible use of electronic devices.  the world, listening directly to their opinions in relation to  ot
n
Another key tool for feedback and proximity to people con- innovation, sustainability and technology, and also in relation  cal 
gi
sists of interviews with People Business Partners, corpo- to their personal experience in the Company. In addition to  olo
d
o
rate figures dedicated to listening and identifying the needs  collecting all open positions in the various Group countries,  eth
M
of people in order to integrate them with the needs of the  the section provides a storytelling function relating the enor-
organisation. These figures are assisted by People Support  mous diversity and wealth of experience of Enel people. 
Points, i.e. physical meeting points to which people can refer  Internal communication is also the main vector to dissem-
to resolve administrative and operative topics associated with  inate Enel’s strategy and the objectives identified for the 
their employment relationship. Planning is also proceeding for  near future. In 2019, Enel’s internal media were further de-
the People & Business Partner network and support services  veloped in order to guarantee that the contents reach the 
to facilitate the management of the personal and professional  entire population of the Company in all its Countries and Re- x
di
daily life of employees suffering from chronic illnesses. The  gions, and that they are accessible also from mobile termi- en
p
initiative constitutes an important phase of attention to an ex- nals and outside the company network. Ap
& 
tremely delicate topic and is aimed at promoting the profes- d 
n
o
sional and social inclusion of all people. B
n 
e
e
Gr
Diversity and inclusion
103-2 103-3 405-1
Enel’s commitment to diversity and inclusion is a process that  ment unit was set up in 2016 within the People and Organ-
began in 2013 with the adoption of the Policy on Human  ization Function, where it performs the role of guiding and 
Rights, followed in 2015 by the “Diversity and inclusion”  supervising adoption of the policy, also by monitoring a de-
Policy, in parallel with adoption of the seven “Women’s Em- tailed set of internal indicators linked to the various actions 
powerment Principles” (WEP) promoted by the UN Glob- and areas of application. 
al Compact and UN Women and in compliance with the UN  2019 saw the publication of the workplace harassment pol-
Sustainable Development Goals.  icy, the aim of which is to disseminate a culture of opposi-
Moreover, the Global People Care and Diversity Manage- tion to all forms of harassment in the workplace and offer 
Our people and their value 99