adequate tools to deal with situations of this type. The policy  Enel has confirmed its commitment in relation to the topic of 
provides definitions and indications on the whistle-blowing  diversity and inclusion, also through the definition of specif-
and investigation process and on the related disciplinary and  ic public targets that form part of the Sustainability Plan and 
preventive measures and is applicable to employees and third  the progress of which is reported in the Sustainability Report. 
parties working with Enel people in all contexts in which the  These documents are analysed by the Corporate Governance 
Company conducts its operations. Publication of the global  and Sustainability Committee and the Control and Risks Com-
policy was followed by publication of various local policies  mittee, and subsequently approved by the Board of Directors. 
which, in certain cases, adapted the global policy to match  In 2019, the Board of Directors was given a specific training 
the regulatory framework in individual countries. The policy  session on the subject of disabilities at the time of Enel’s par-
concerns both moral and sexual harassment, referred to any  ticipation in “Valuable 500”, the global initiative addressed to 
undesirable behaviour or conduct such that results in the cre- 500 private sector companies with the aim of providing an 
ation of work conditions that are degrading, hostile, humili- outlet to express the potential of disabled personnel in the 
ating, intimidating, offensive or unsafe. In this context, har- corporate, social and economic spheres. 
assment means physical, verbal or visual acts or behaviours. 
The policy regulates harassment events that take place in the 
Gender diversity
workplace and also those that occur outside, such as during 
work travel, luncheons, dinners, external visits and social 
events linked to the Company’s business. The policy provides  At December 2019, women accounted for 21% of the en-
a whistle-blowing mechanism using the Enel Code of Eth- tire Group population and their presence in the initial stages 
ics channel, and adequate disciplinary actions and penalties  of selection processes was recorded at 42%3 (39% in 2018), 
(commensurate with the seriousness and frequency of the  in line with the goal of reaching 50% by 2022 in order to guar-
conduct), which can result in termination of employment in  antee equal representation. Women managers have followed 
the most serious cases. Also internal training and awareness  an upward trend in recent years (2014: 14% vs 2019: 21%), 
activities are planned on the subject of ethics in the work- while women in executive roles currently total 11.1% (2 out 
place, behaviours to adopt, and respect for diversity. of 18). The 2019 equal remuneration rating - ERR manager4 
Enel’s approach to diversity and inclusion is based on core  concerning the managerial population is 83.7%. In general, 
principles of non-discrimination, equal opportunities and equal  the trend of global equal remuneration ratings is influenced 
dignity for all forms of diversity, inclusion, and work-life bal- by the different average salaries in the countries in which the 
ance set down in the related policy of 2015. Application of the  Group operates and by the incidence of newly acquired com-
policy in recent years has made it possible to develop global  panies or divested companies.
and local projects celebrating diversity of gender, age, nation- Enel carries out periodic monitoring of the presence of wom-
ality, and abilities, and disseminating a culture of inclusion,  en in managerial positions and on salary equity, and the 
with awareness and communication initiatives that involved  2020-2022 Sustainability Plan provides for an increase in the 
all organisational contexts, thanks also to the commitment of  number of women in management and middle management 
company management and of all people who, in line with the  positions. In this context, Enel is committed to the develop-
requirements of Open Power behaviours, recognise the value  ment of women for senior positions, implementing specific 
of each person regardless of individual differences.  management actions whose results however can only be fully 
2019 saw the production of “Inclusion Ongoing” – the edi- appreciated in the medium/long term, considering the effects 
tion of the D&I Days organised since 2017 – with the aim  of the generational dynamic. In the short term, salary equity 
of focusing on the concept of inclusion = value and the path  is anyway guaranteed de facto for new appointments to man-
leading from the culture of inclusion to inclusive behaviours,  agerial positions, and a dedicated budget has been created 
with the active engagement and empowerment of all. At the  to guarantee equal pay for equal roles. Moreover, the salary 
same time, an awareness campaign was launched called “In-
clusi-ON”: the name of the initiative is designed to commu-
3 Blue collar workers and the US scope were excluded from the selection 
nicate the idea that inclusion is an attitude that must be acti- pool because local regulations protecting anti-discriminatory practices 
vated – switched ON – and that each individual is responsible  during recruiting operations prevent monitoring of this parameter.
4 ERR manager (Equal Remuneration Ratio) = fixed + variable female man-
for assuming.
agers / fixed + variable male managers.
100 Sustainability Report 2019