s
ar
pill
ur 
O
ss
ee
nn
oo
bb
kk
cc
aa
bb
G G 
SS
EE
e
ot
n
al 
c
gi
o
ol
d
o
h
et
M
review policy contains specific guidelines to take account of  to the legal requirement of 80%. Also, Colombia offers the 
diversity issues, which are also among the criteria employed  opportunity of smart working in the last month of pregnancy, 
x
di
to identify talent to insert in succession plans (refer to the  while in Argentina smart working is possible for two days per  en
p
p
“Talent, development and management of people” para- week in the first six months after returning from maternity  A
& 
graph in this chapter). leave and, in India, to support critical situations during preg- d 
n
o
A large number of activities were carried out dedicated to em- nancy. Paternity leave is guaranteed by law in many countries,  n B
e
powerment and the development of female leadership in the  and in the majority of them Enel provides additional days of  Gre
countries in which the Group operates, and the path aimed at  paid leave. For example, in Italy, five further days of paid leave 
facilitating access by female students to technical faculties  are provided in addition to the five days required by law for 
(Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics - STEM)  2019. Conversely, in relation to paternity leave, Enel’s collec-
continued to be pursued by means of awareness initiatives,  tive bargaining agreement in Italy provides for remuneration 
carried out in schools, in universities, and in company sites.  equivalent to 45% for the first month and 40% for the second 
In relation to parenthood, there are specific paternity and ma- and third months, while the legal requirement is 30% for the 
ternity programmes in place. Many countries are implement- first six months. On the other hand, Russia, Romania, Greece 
ing improvement measures with respect to local legislation  and Panama recognise a monetary contribution on the birth of 
in relation to maternity, paternity and parental leave. With  a child, while in South Africa the full salary is paid during the 
respect to legal requirements, extra days of maternity leave  period of leave that is not remunerated under local legislation. 
are granted, together with supplementary remuneration, in  Active on the global level, the Parental Program project is 
Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Peru, Guatemala, Italy, Mexico,  aimed at promoting organisational and personal awareness 
United States, and Spain. For example, in Italy Enel pays  of the value of parenthood in order to assure optimal recon-
100% of the normal salary in the first 5 months, compared  ciliation of personal and professional needs concerning this 
Our people and their value 101