critical stage of life. In this context, New Parents New En- professional development, to help them get to know the or-
ergy is a training programme operating in Italy, designed to  ganisation and the value system.
elevate the value of parenting skills in the work context and to  The tutorship is currently part of the onboarding process, 
support new parents in reconciling roles and managing their  which also envisages a global training project dedicated to 
daily lives. Also active is the MAAM-CHILD digital platform,  graduates between 22 and 28 years of age from all over the 
which stimulates active reflection on individual experience in  world. The project promotes the Open Power culture and 
order to bring it to the table in a work-related setting and that  makes participants Open Power ambassadors in their coun-
uses life and caring experiences as an opportunity for devel- tries of origin. In this context, the promotion and development 
oping essential soft skills for effective work activities, namely  of new skills has been assured by setting up “Click Labora-
organisational, innovative and relational capabilities. Finally,  tories”, innovation centres addressed to young new recruits 
various awareness initiatives were carried out on the subject  with the aim of developing cross-sector and knowledge inte-
of violence against women.  grated with digital competences and soft skills.
As a testament to the commitment concerning the topic of 
gender equality, for the first time this year Enel was included 
Disabilities
in the Bloomberg Gender Equality Index (GEI). The Group is 
in fact one of the 325 companies of the approximately 6 thou-
sand businesses listed on the stock exchange in 84 countries  There are 2,254 people with disabilities in Enel, of whom 
assessed based on the degree of dissemination and success  around 1,700 in Italy. Specific statutory legislation in many of 
of their inclusion initiatives. Also Enel’s Spanish subsidiary  Enel’s countries calls for minimum numbers of disabled staff 
Endesa was included in the index for the first time. The recog- in the workforce, and all countries in the Group were found 
nition is due to the practices aimed at promoting the presence  to be in line with the related provisions. In each of the rele-
of women on the Board of Directors, in managerial positions  vant countries5 there is a reference focal point dedicated to 
and among new recruits, helping to guarantee equal remu- identifying needs and promoting initiatives aimed at assuring 
neration and social benefits and work-life balance solutions  the inclusion of people with disabilities. In consideration of 
for all employees. the large number of disabled staff in Italy, 2 focal points were 
created. Including diversities also means providing people 
with tools, services and working methods to allow them to 
Age diversity
perform their duties in a fully independent manner. In Italy, 
several initiatives within the “Avanti tutti” project have been 
The tutorship programmes proceeded in 2019 for new junior  adopted, aimed at delivering tools to make processes and en-
recruits, in order to support their induction into Enel. There  vironments inclusive and to promote autonomy, making life in 
are also knowledge transfer programmes in place where  the organisational context more simple and productive. Exam-
each Country and Business Line identifies the most suitable  ples include Pedius for safety, the app that allows the hearing 
methods to facilitate intergenerational exchanges, involving  impaired to receive and make telephone calls thanks to a voice 
both senior (mainly on technical topics) and junior (mainly on  synthesis system integrated with safety functions, company 
digital skills) Enel people as internal coaches or experts. In  guidelines for accessibility to web contents and a large range 
2019, around 1,100 seniors shared their know-how with more  of specific training initiatives. In Spain, a personalised coun-
than 12 thousand co-workers, and around 300 juniors did the  selling and Plan Familia service is active for Enel people with 
same with more than 7 thousand co-workers. Furthermore,  disabled family members, in addition to the Company’s volun-
on the global level, a programme of manager to manager  tary activities aimed at the employability of disabled persons 
and manager to upcoming juniors “Job Shadowing” was  at risk of social exclusion. In addition, various communication 
launched, aimed at facilitating the exchange of Open Power  campaigns have been launched to promote awareness on the 
competences, managerial styles, values and approaches, in  importance of the inclusion of people with disabilities through 
order to promote mobility and dissemination of knowledge  the use of virtual reality tools, workshops and interviews.
and to consolidate the professional network. New recruits are 
also assigned a tutor as an informal point of reference for 
5 Relevant countries are those in which there is at least one disabled mem-
ber of staff.
102 Sustainability Report 2019