s
ar
pill
ur 
O
Work-life balance, people care  
and corporate welfare
103-2 103-3
Enel is attentive to organisational and personal well-being, and  physical exercise, courses in yoga, pilates and postural 
ss
ee
has pursued an undertaking for several years to promote solu- gymnastics, and life saving actions for proactive manage- onon
bb
kk
tions to improve work-life balance and to support the tangible  ment of psychological-physical well-being, both at work  acac
bb
and daily needs of individuals in order to respect all the situ- and in personal life. Cultural meetings were also staged  G G 
SS
EE
ations, also of a contingent nature, that an individual may be  to promote discussions concerning relevant topics in the 
required to deal with during his or her working life. The caring  company and personal sphere; 
activities, which involve all Enel people, concern the spheres  >  family caring: specific projects such as “Together Digital 
of personal and family life, psychological-physical well-being,  Day”, a cyber security and coding laboratory for employees 
organisational matters, and work-life balance.  and their children from 8 to 16 years of age, and “Millen-
In particular, Enel promotes: nials Enel Day”, a workshop with the purpose of orienting 
>  organisational caring: various forms of flexibility, including  employees’ children aged from 18 to 27 in their choice of 
smart working, which was launched in Italy in 2016 and  educational and professional paths in an increasingly com- e
ot
then extended to the Group’s other countries, and which  plex job market. In 2019 these initiatives involved around  al n
c
leverages individual responsibility and the relationship of  100 young people.  gi
o
ol
trust between the individual and the Company and that  Staff in Italy can also transfer holidays and time-off for solidari- d
o
h
also supports a contribution to reducing environmental im- ty motives among co-workers of the same company to assist  et
M
pact. At the end of 2019 more than 10 thousand people in  young children or adolescents, parents, spouses, members of 
Italy and 17 thousand in the entire Group were involved in  a civil union or unmarried couples who require constant treat-
smart working initiatives; ment or in the case of very serious personal or family situa-
>  personal caring: mindfulness courses, workshops on nu- tions. In addition to holidays donated by co-workers, Enel offers 
tritional and relational well-being, programmes to promote  an equal amount of paid leave.
x
di
n
Italy Spain Romania Russia North Latin  Africa, Asia Europe and e
p
America America(1) and Euro-Mediterranean p
A
Oceania Affairs & 
d 
n
o
B
n 
Flexi-time ee
Gr
Seasonal work hours
Part time
Teleworking(2)
Smart working
Time bank
1 Argentina (smart working), Brazil (smart working, time bank, ﬂexi-time), Chile (smart working, ﬂexi-time), Colombia (smart working, time bank, ﬂexi-time), 
Peru (teleworking, ﬂexi-time, seasonal work hours).
2 Teleworking in Italy involves work services to be carried out mainly from home, with one or two days on site per week. Teleworking in Latin America is 
carried out with just one or two days per week working from home.
Our people and their value 103