Supplementary healthcare assistance 
and complementary pensions
103-2 103-3
The majority of countries in which the Group operates offer  uing to pay the membership fees.
supplementary health insurance policies at advantageous con- Supplementary  assistance  programmes  for  employees, 
ditions with respect to the alternatives available on the mar- their family members and communities are also supplied 
ket. In many cases it is the Company that provides benefits  thanks to the protocol of social action attached to the col-
related to prevention and periodic check-ups (refer also to the  lective bargaining agreement. The measures to support 
chapter on “Occupational health and safety”). For all Italian em- personnel includes the facility to access additional pension 
ployees and their dependent family members, in agreement  funds and the award of various types of individual benefits in 
with trade unions Enel set up the Supplementary Healthcare  services associated with employee severance indemnity. At 
Provision for Enel Group Employees (FISDE) in 1997. The Pro- December 31, 2019, employees covered by the Enel Group 
vision disburses repayments and redemptions for healthcare  pension plan totalled 70% of the population. Pension funds 
expenses, promotes initiatives for the disabled and individuals  exist mainly in Italy (Fopen and Fondenel), Spain, and Brazil.
subject to socially challenging situations (drug addiction, alco- Enel has drawn up an insurance policy to cover the Group’s 
holism, learning difficulties, psychological-social disorders) and  over 68,000 employees worldwide in the event of hospitali-
sets up preventive medicine programmes. Also in 2019, mem- zation with the Covid-19 virus. The insurance tool, which was 
bers were able to take advantage of symposia with the Italian  specifically designed for the needs of the Enel Group, repre-
National Council of Psychologists (CNOP) and Psychoanalytic  sents the first ever of its kind in the world aimed at guarantee-
Society (SPI) for psychological support services. In line with the  ing support at global level for the ongoing pandemic and will 
FISDE solidarity principle, also ex Enel employees can continue  guarantee additional benefits on top of all other insurance pol-
to benefit from the services offered by the Provision by contin- icies and forms of health care already used within the Group.
Management of travel-related risks
As from 2016, Enel people travelling to destinations considered at risk are provided with speciﬁc information detailing 
the healthcare situation and safety conditions of the countries in question. In particular, by means of the company travel 
reservations system, the Security Travel Guide and Health Guide are sent out before departure, with any necessary 
updates integrated during the trip. In relation to speciﬁc risks associated with the destination, whenever necessary 
Enel prepares suitable protective measures (expert guides, bodyguards, etc.). To coordinate the entire process, a 24/7 
supervisory function supports personnel during travel, monitors the relevant news reports and coordinates responses 
in the presence of situations of objective danger or emergency. The model is active in all Group countries, guaranteeing 
100% coverage of international and intercontinental travel with the integrated Travel Security system. 
Industrial relations
103-2 103-3 402-1
Enel complies with labour law in the various countries and  and seeking an adequate level of agreement and sharing of 
the conventions of the International Labour Organization  corporate strategies by employees. In 2019, the percentage 
(ILO) concerning workers’ rights (freedom of association  of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 
and collective bargaining, consultation, right to strike, etc.),  was 91.2%, in line with the figure for 2018 (91.5%).
systematically promoting discussion between social partners  Industrial relations activities on the Group level continue to 
104 Sustainability Report 2019