s
ar
pill
ur 
O
be conducted in accordance with the model set down in the  resentation elected in compliance with the legislation and 
Enel Global Framework Agreement (GFA) signed in Rome in  practices in force in the countries concerned. Enel recognises 
2013 with the Italian federations and the global federations  the value of collective bargaining as a tool to determine the 
IndustriALL and Public Services International. The agreement  contractual conditions of its employees and to regulate rela-
is founded on the principles of human rights, labour rights  tions between company management and trade union asso-
and of the best and most advanced transnational industrial  ciations. Enel complies with the principle of independence of 
relation systems of the reference multinational groups and in- unions and does not interfere in any way with the organisation  eses
nn
oo
stitutions on the international level, including the ILO. These  of representation, allowing access of its employees’ repre- bb
kk
cc
principles include the principle on remuneration, whereby the  sentatives to the workplaces in order to communicate with  baba
G G 
minimum compensation of the Group’s employees cannot be  their members, in compliance with the law and the industrial  ESES
lower than the level established by the collective bargaining  relations systems in force in each country. Enel supplies ad-
contacts and legislative and regulatory treatments in force in  equate information to its employees and to the trade union 
the various countries, in line with the matters set down in the  organisations that represent them, in order to facilitate col-
ILO conventions. Enel guarantees that the equal pay principle  lective bargaining. The GFA agreement was also recognised 
is respected in all countries in which it is present and it is  and acclaimed as a best practice among European and non-
committed to guarantee a living wage to all its employees. EU multinationals. Enel provides its people with a full range 
In the framework of this agreement, Enel recognises the right  of information concerning collective labour agreements and 
e
of its employees to set up or participate in trade union as- trade union agreements, in accordance with the provisions of  not
al 
sociations in order to protect their interests. It also awards  statutory legislation and by means of the company intranet.  c
gi
o
them the right to be represented, in the various generation  In the case of organisational changes, Enel provides prompt  ol
d
o
units, by trade union organisations and other forms of rep- information as indicated in the table shown hereunder.   eth
M
COUNTRY MINIMUM PERIOD LEGAL PROVISIONS/COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS
Italy 25 days Legal provisions
Spain   30 days Guarantee  Framework  Agreement  of  Endesa  SA  and 
and Portugal subsidiaries in Spain (September 12, 2007)
x
di
Russia 60 days Legal provisions n
e
p
p
Romania Obligation to inform and consult worker representatives on  Legal provisions A
& 
business developments and to inform them periodically about  Collective agreement d 
n
the Company’s economic situation. For group layoffs, at least  o
B
30 days’ notice for the trade union organizations and 20 days’  n 
e
notice for workers. The maximum period for the group layoff  Gre
procedure is 90 days
Argentina Obligation to periodically update worker representatives; tra- -
ditionally the notice period for changes in working hours, em-
ployee roles or place of work is 48 hours, although there is no 
speciﬁc regulation
Brazil Obligation to issue a “timely” notice -
Colombia Neither the law nor collective bargaining provide for a mini- -
mum notice period in the event of organizational changes
Peru Neither the law nor collective bargaining provide for a mini- -
mum notice period in the event of organizational changes
Chile Neither the law nor collective bargaining provide for a mini- -
mum notice period in the event of organizational changes
Our people and their value 105