102-42 102-43 102-44 103-2 103-3 411-1 413-1
Sustainability Report Communities 
At a Glance
Performance indicators
Annual Report and value sharing
1,800  Listening to stakeholders, 
knowing the territory and 
sustainability projects
measuring created value
4
 
million beneﬁciaries The energy industry is going through profound change. Focusing on social and envi-
ronmental factors, plus an inclusive approach, enables us to create long-term value 
for the Company and the communities in which it operates. A model expressed 
along the entire value chain: analysing the needs of the communities starting from 
1,375
the phases of developing new businesses; taking into account social and environ-
 
mental factors while setting up sustainable construction sites; managing assets 
applications of the CSV model
and plants to make them sustainable development platforms in the areas where 
(Creating Shared Value)
they are located. Further development is seen by the extension of this approach 
also in the design, development and supply of energy services and products, con-
tributing towards creating cities that are increasingly sustainable by leveraging ac-
800 cess to new technologies and circular-economy approaches. 
  Enel is committed to respecting the right of communities and contributing towards 
partnerships their economic and social progress by interfacing with a multitude of stakeholders 
on a daily basis. Having knowledge of the specific local situations and listening to the 
needs of the stakeholders become essential elements for identifying targeted solu-
tions, considering the multiplicity of economic, social and cultural situations in which 
Enel operates and of which it is an integral part with the management of its assets. 
In 2019, with approximately 1,800 projects and more than 4 million beneficiar-
ies1 in the  countries in which it is present, Enel made a tangible contribution to the 
development and social and economic growth of local areas: from the expansion 
of infrastructures to education and training programmes, from initiatives aimed at 
social inclusion to projects designed to support cultural and economic activities, in 
line with the sustainable development goals (SDG). 
1 Beneficiaries are the people in whose favour the project was carried out. Enel considers only the direct 
beneficiaries for the current year. The number of beneficiaries considers the activities and projects car-
ried out in all the areas in which the Group operates (including companies consolidated with the equity 
method, the foundations and non-profit organisations of the Group, and the companies for which the 
BSO - Build, Sell and Operate mechanism was applied).
108 Sustainability Report 2019