The transformation underway leads to   Important  results  were  achieved  also  impact and meet the requirements of 
structural changes in various industrial  in terms of environmental sustainability  customers and the local communities in 
sectors, leading to the opening up of new  and in the sphere of vendor relations.  which it operates, with a commitment 
markets and business opportunities, but  Finally, the principles of innovation, dig- to guaranteeing high safety standards 
also to the need to renew consolidated  italization and the circular economy were  for employees and vendors alike. Enel is 
models and rethink the ways that availa- infused throughout all processes in the  thus able to take on the new challenges 
ble resources are being used. The results  value chain. of the energy transition process, not sim-
achieved by Enel in recent years attest  ply by reacting to risks, but by embracing 
to the soundness and sustainability  Thanks to the Group’s diversification of  all the opportunities without leaving an-
of a business model that is capable  countries  and  regions,  the  integrated  yone behind. A clear, defined and long-
of creating value for all stakeholders  business  model  throughout  the  value  term strategic vision, and day-to-day ac-
and supporting the accomplishment  chain, a solid financial structure, and the  tions based on the concept of openness 
of the UN Sustainable Development  level of digitalization achieved, Enel guar- and  the  inviolable  synthesis  between 
Goals. 2019 was a key year in relation  antees the continuity of its operating as- innovation and sustainability. Inner and 
to  the  decarbonization  strategy,  with  sets with the same level of service, in  outer openness towards the interior and 
the construction of over 3,000 MW of  relation to the emergency caused by the  towards the exterior is achieved through 
renewable capacity, the continuation of  spread of Coronavirus (Covid-19), also in  the creation of innovative and cross-sec-
the coal power plants decommissioning  support of the countries in which it oper- tor partnerships that call for the develop-
plan, generation from renewable sourc- ates. Smart working was rapidly imple- ment of new modes of engagement to 
es surpassing the output from thermal  mented for around 50% of Enel people,  guarantee a lasting relationship and firm 
generation, and specific CO emissions  protecting health and guaranteeing busi- positioning  in  an  increasingly  unstruc-
2
from total net production totalling 296  ness continuity, and a dedicated task force  tured scenario. This approach will lead to 
g/kWh . The new Global Power Gen- has been set up to monitor the phenom- the interception and interpretation of the 
eq
eration Business Line, which integrates  ena, determine any appropriate actions,  faint signals today that will become the 
renewable capacity with thermal gen- and share its experience gained with the  trends of tomorrow.
eration, was created to further support  various countries. To accommodate work 
and accelerate this process. Users with  requirements and assist smart working  A key element of the outlined approach is 
smart meters number 44.7 million, and  staff with their remote collaboration, a  the adoption of ESG (Environmental, So-
the Group has a total of 70 million end  daily contents bulletin has been set up on  cial and Governance) sustainability indi-
users, thus confirming Enel’s positive  the Enel intranet with coaching “pills”, ad- cators throughout the entire value chain, 
positioning,  especially  in  developed  vice and recommendations on how to use  not merely for the assessment of the re-
countries in which a process of ener- the IT tools and resources to their best ad- sults achieved, but above all to anticipate 
gy markets liberalisation is in progress.  vantage, plus tutorials dedicated to health  decisions and develop a proactive out-
Company people, totalling 68,253 in the  of individuals and their families. From the  look. Enel has an ongoing commitment 
various  Group  countries  and  regions,  operational standpoint, the majority of as- to the management and measurement 
constitute the strategic lever to manage  sets are digitalized and are remote control  of its performance in terms of all relevant 
the energy transition process. Our staff  compatible, as are customer operations  aspects, addressing economic, business 
are offered specific upskilling and reskill- and communication channels. This digi- and ESG issues in reporting its operations 
ing programmes as well as tailored train- talization process, which started in 2015,  and defining the objectives underpinning 
ing initiatives are offered to Enel people  now means that Enel’s people and assets  its strategy. This model is fully in line with 
to boost digital skills. The combined in- are perfectly positioned to face with the  the requirements of the UN Global Com-
juries frequency rate (Enel people and  current global crisis.  pact – of which Enel has been an active 
contractors)  confirmed  the  downward  member since 2004 – which stress the 
trend of prior years (0.73 in 2019 vs 0.90  By  exploiting  synergies  between  the  importance of ever-increasing integration 
in 2018). Projects with local communities  various business areas, taking actions by  of sustainability throughout all corporate 
remained in place, aimed at promoting  leveraging innovation, and implementing  strategies. The Enel Chief Executive Of-
access  to  energy,  high-quality  educa- Open Power behaviours, the Enel Group  ficer is a member of the Global Compact 
tion, and socio-economic development.  seeks solutions to reduce environmental  Board of Directors. 
10 Sustainability Report 2019