At the Enel Group, the path for applying a new communi- of electric vehicles for transporting workers from the city 
ty relations model started in 2015 with the adoption of a  to the construction site and for their movements within the 
Creating Shared Value (CSV) model that integrates social-en- construction site) and promote the development of this ap-
vironmental factors into business processes and along the  proach by involving local workers. 
entire value chain. The dissemination of this method re- The definition and dissemination of the guidelines on the 
quired a consolidation path within the Company on a cultural  use of CSV applications, the preparation and assessment of 
and operative level. In 2016, Policy no. 211 “CSV Process  the sustainability projects, the management of the projects 
definition and management” was published. It defines how  on a Group level and the dissemination of the best practices 
sustainability must permeate company processes across  in the countries in which the company operates are guaran-
the board, making it a shared responsibility. This policy was  teed by the Holding’s Innovability (Innovation and Sustaina-
supplemented by issuing an operating instruction (no. 1768  bility) organisational structure and by the relative sustaina-
“Project Portfolio Management System”), which represents  bility structures in the various countries of operation. During 
the approach along Enel’s entire value chain in terms of pro- 2019, the Sustainability Functions were established also on 
ject identification and characterisation as well as its mapping  a Business Line level, which testifies to the process of inte-
on the dedicated digitalized platform (Project Portfolio Man- grating sustainability at all the subsidiaries. Each country and 
agement System); management of the quality assurance  each Business Line adapts the procedures for the global pol-
process; calculation of beneficiaries; evaluation of project  icy and the procedures for application of the CSV model on 
impact. The CSV model applies to the entire value chain with  a local level, based on the specific aspects of business and 
particular reference to business development, engineering,  the context. In 2019, there were 1,375 applications of the 
construction and procurement operations as well as asset  CSV model3 across the various phases of the value chain.
management and maintenance. The model has six phases, 
as specified in the figure on the previous page. 
An inclusive approach towards stakeholders also includes  3 An application is interpreted as the use of at least one CSV tool in relation 
to an asset, in any phase of the value chain and in any Business Line. 
circular economy solutions. The infrastructures of plants 
The CSV applications in the BD phase include applications regarding BD 
being decommissioned can be reconverted to serve other  opportunities (also at the beginning phases) and business projects output 
leaving the pipeline. They can also relate to assets in O&M in the case of 
purposes for promoting the territory by involving the various 
modernising projects or decommissioning activities. The CSV applications 
stakeholders. Another example is the “sustainable” man- in the E&C phase can refer to assets passed to the O&M phase at the end 
agement of the construction sites in order to minimise their  of the year. The number of CSV applications in Infrastructure & Networks 
(I&N) may refer to the concession area, but also areas identified by muni-
impacts (thanks, for example, to the installation of photo-
cipalities and substations. As regards the NFS perimeter (excluding com-
voltaic solar panels to satisfy a part of the energy demand,  panies consolidated using the equity method, foundations and non-profit 
organisations of the Group, and the companies for which the BSO - Build, 
the adoption of water saving measures, including installing 
Sell and Operate mechanism was applied) the number of applications for 
water tanks and rainwater collection systems and the use  2019 equals 1,318 (in relation to 699 in 2018).
110 Sustainability Report 2019