commitments from an ESG point of view, including access 
to energy and the corresponding financial and non-financial 
reporting are analysed and monitored by the Board of Direc-
tors, through the Corporate Governance and Sustainability 
Committee and the Control and Risk Committee (see the 
Corporate Governance report, available at www.enel.com). 
Top management is engaged on a daily basis in realising 
these strategic objectives by contributing towards support-
ing the global challenge of guaranteeing access to energy. In 
line with Enel’s sustainable business model, each business 
line/country promotes specific initiatives for its area of re-
sponsibility, such as the development of renewable assets 
in mature countries and in developing countries (Global Pow- installed capacity (more than 600 MW in operation and 900 
er Generation Business Line), energy efficiency, responsible  MW under construction), with a presence in different coun-
consumption and offers dedicated to vulnerable segments  tries, including South Africa and Zambia. In Asia, the Group 
(Infrastructure and Networks, Enel X, Market-Countries). To  is present in India through its subsidiary BLP Energy, one 
support top management, each country is responsible for  of the country’s main renewable energy companies, which 
managing relationships with institutional bodies, regulatory  owns and manages 172 MW of wind capacity, producing 
authorities on a national, regional and local level, and as- approximately 300 GWh a year in Gujarat and Maharashtra.
sociations for promoting the development of solutions for  In parallel to the development of new renewable capaci-
access to energy according to different needs. The Innov- ty, and in line with what is required by the SDGs, Enel has 
ability Function, both on a holding level as well as a busi- defined a specific commitment for SDG 7 “Affordable and 
ness line/country level, also promotes the dissemination of  clean energy”: reach 10 million people by 2030. This target 
a shared value model. It supports innovative solutions that  is expressed through projects related, for example, to rural 
can promote access to energy in remote areas with limited  electrification, development of capacity, technology transfer, 
access to electricity. An example is the world’s first “Plug  financial support to promote access to energy or innovative 
and Play” micro-grid launched in Chile, which is powered  solutions, as well as partnership agreements with relevant 
by a photovoltaic source with a hydrogen storage system  stakeholders. In 2019, in developing countries alone, slightly 
that guarantees the supply of green energy for 24 hours,  more than 200 projects were created that reached approx-
anywhere, without having to use diesel generators and is  imately 1.1 million beneficiaries. During 2018-2019, more 
able to operate both on-grid or off-grid. than 200 partnerships were stipulated regarding this topic 
(see the paragraph “Listening to stakeholders, knowing the 
territory and measuring created value”).
Some examples are provided below of initiatives that Enel 
Promoting access to energy 
is adopting in developing countries to support access to en-
in developing countries
ergy and that were promoted by the various business lines.
>  Cundinamarca  100%  (Colombia):  the  programme 
aims to provide energy to families in areas that are dif-
Enel’s commitment to promoting access to energy in de-
ficult to access with wide geographical dispersion. The 
veloping countries does not only involve the supply of elec-
project was started in 2016 with the participation of pub-
tricity, but also the possibility to supply innovative and clean 
lic partners and private associations, using three meth-
technologies to the population in order to produce energy 
ods: connection to conventional power grids, installation 
with a reduced impact on the environment. For example, in 
of solar panels with back-up batteries and the construc-
Latin America in 2019, 347 MW from renewable sources be-
tion of a mini-grid to guarantee access to energy 24/7. In 
came operational, increasing the total renewable capacity to 
2019, 722 new families were connected, increasing the 
around 13,700 MW. In Africa, Enel Green Power is currently 
total number of connected families to 2,533. In addition 
the main private operator in the renewable sector in terms of 
to guaranteeing access to energy, the programme also 
112 Sustainability Report 2019