s
ar
pill
ur 
O
includes education and professional training projects for  launched in 2007, allows providing discounts for the 
the start-up of production companies and support for lo- electricity bill for all customers who recycle their waste 
cal agricultural development. and bring it to specific collection points. In 2019, this pro-
>  Cerro Iglesias (Panama): a rural zone without access  ject was also extended to the state of San Paolo, as well 
to electric energy near the Cerro Iglesias hydroelec- as the states of Rio de Janeiro, Ceará and Goiás in Brazil. 
tric power plant. It was illuminated thanks to a creat- The project also includes specific training on aware and 
ing shared value project together with the Oficina de  efficient energy consumption (“Enel Shares Efficien- eses
nn
oo
Electrificación Rural (OER) of the Prime Minister of the  cy”). Furthermore, visits were also made to customer  bb
kk
cc
Republic of Panama. Thanks to the joint effort with lo- homes to evaluate the possibility of accessing the so- baba
G G 
cal authorities, today almost 2 thousand residents of the  cial tariff and provide information about efficient energy  ESES
community located in the Panamanian district of Nole  use. In 2019, the EcoEnel project reached approximately 
Duima, in the comarca of Ngäbe-Buglé, receive electric- 180,000 direct beneficiaries (vulnerable customers who 
ity in their homes. The project has make it possible to  are facilitated), recycled 59,000 t of waste, created 240 
build approximately 14 km of transmission line, install  eco collection points and involved 43 municipalities.
263 street illumination plants and electrify 423 homes.  >  Fundación Pachacútec (Peru): this institute, which is 
It is sustainable and renewable energy that permits the  located near the coastal area of Ventanilla, in the prov-
residents of the small village today to have illuminated  ince of Callao, promotes professional courses in indus-
e
roads and the electricity needed to power their local  trial electric technology for low-income business own- not
al 
business activities, schools and health care system.  ers and local youth who want to start their professional  c
gi
o
>  Marginal city areas and rural electrification for in- development in the electric sector. The participants had  ol
d
o
digenous communities (Chile): the purpose of the  the opportunity to work as part of the staff of the E-Dis- eth
M
initiative is to improve living conditions for more than  tribuzione contractors in Peru or to start their own small/
200 families that live in the Medialuna camp, located in  medium-sized local business. The courses, which were 
the municipality of Lampa. Enel Distribución and Fun- also carried out by Enel employees on a voluntary basis, 
dación Techo have created an alliance that has produced  helped 90% of the almost 700 beneficiaries of the pro-
the initial result of constructing a “community centre”  gramme to enter the working world in the electrical sec-
that will be powered by renewable energy from pho- tor. A good part of the people finishing the course were 
tovoltaic panels, provided with air conditioning and ef- women, who had the possibility to start their profession  x
di
ficient lighting systems. This space not only offers a  in a sector that normally was considered only for men.  en
p
p
new meeting point and a recreation area, it will also be  As regards strategic partnerships, the project carried out  A
& 
the ideal place for developing seminars suitable for the  with Liter of Light was completed, which promoted work- nd 
o
B
entire community: training courses to reinforce working  shops targeted towards the construction and maintenance  n 
e
e
skills and educational activities such as waste manage- of small solar generation units that use plastic bottles and  Gr
ment, the installation of recycling points or the creation  other recycled materials. More than 2,500 solar kits were 
of a community garden. This project will be extended  distributed through the workshop in schools in Peru, Chile, 
to residential customers in a vulnerable situation who  Argentina, Romania, South Africa, Brazil and Italy. By means 
live in the Enel concession area. The initiatives for im- of learning-by-doing, the workshop allowed students to learn 
proving access to energy for indigenous communities  about the possibilities deriving from material recycling from 
located near the company plants are still continuing. For  the point of view of a circular economy (through the recon-
example, in the rural community of Pehuén di Callaqui,  version of kerosene lamps into electric lamps powered by 
Alto Bío Bío, in the VIII Region of Chile, 52 families have  solar energy), and open source lighting technologies. Fur-
benefited from the installation of electrical systems in  thermore, Enel is contributing towards the programme of the 
their homes. The systems were supplied complete with  Brazilian government (“Electricity Social Tariff”), in favour 
electrical lines and the relative authorisations, with the  of low-income families, which offers discounts for energy 
installation of material outside and outside the homes,  bills up to a reduction of 65% of the normal residential rate.
thereby guaranteeing the quality of the service supplied. 
>  Project  Ecoenel  (Brazil):  the  project,  which  was 
Community and shared value 113