Fighting energy poverty  advice about responsible energy consumption by dis-
tributing energy efficiency kits and, in some cases, 
in developed countries
introducing improvements to the electrical systems 
of the most vulnerable families. In many cases, the 
Although access to energy is guaranteed in developed coun- programme helped obtain an average reduction in the 
tries, there are consumers who struggle to pay their ener- energy bill of up to 30%. This initiative is managed by 
gy bills, following the serious global crisis that has affected  volunteers, from Endesa staff, in close collaboration 
low-income families in these countries in particular. Even if  with civil society organisations. In 2018-2019, the pro-
governments have the primary responsibility of guarantee- gramme benefited more than 2,400 families, 772 of 
ing sustainable, safe and economic access to basic energy  them in 2019. The 2020 edition of the project has also 
services, the electric sector can contribute towards promot- been started;
ing sustainable social-economic development. >  training in responsible energy consumption and bill 
Enel has always been committed to collaborating with gov- optimisation, which in 2019 resulted in the organisa-
ernments to combat energy poverty and promote access to  tion of three training sessions held in Tenerife, Fuerte-
energy for the vulnerable population of developed countries. ventura and Zaragoza, with the participation of approxi-
Enel’s commitment to reaching SDG 7 has been amplified  mately 77 institutions that estimate providing advice to 
in that sense and for 2030 it will involve all the countries in  approximately 9,000 people per year who struggle to 
which the Group operates, and not just developing coun- pay their energy bill;
tries such as Africa, Asia and Latin America (see the para- >  initiative against energy poverty (pilot project Re-
graph “Listening to stakeholders, knowing the territory and  luCe), an innovative management method for the con-
measuring created value” in this chapter). sumption of electricity through a pre-paid system that 
Over the past years, Enel has adopted different forms of  also permits providing information regarding how to 
support, often through existing government initiatives, in  save money by promoting efficiency consumption and 
order to reduce the cost of the energy bill for vulnerable  the control of family expenses. During 2019, 18 families 
customers in developed markets, such as Italy, Spain and  in Bilbao who participated in the project were able to re-
Romania (see also the paragraph “Care of vulnerable cus- duce their electrical expenses by 23%, and almost 70% 
tomers” in the chapter “Infrastructure, eco systems and  of these families adapted their consumption based on 
platforms”). the proposed recharges. The system sends a warning if 
Various campaigns and activities were also organised to  a high rate of consumption is detected, notifies if close 
provide the population living in vulnerable conditions with  to reaching the available balance, sends messages to 
advice about responsible energy consumption. encourage efficient consumption attitudes. Finally if the 
Here are some examples of the projects carried out in Spain: customer, when reaching the balance, does not make 
 >  energy volunteer programme, launched by Endesa  the pre-paid recharge, the power is reduced to a level 
and the Endesa Foundation with the purpose to help  that permits covering basic needs, therefore avoiding 
low-income families by providing them with specific  an interruption of the service.
114 Sustainability Report 2019