s
ar
pill
ur 
O
Main projects in progress  
and resettlement management 
102-42 102-43 102-44 103-2 103-3 EU22 eses
nn
DMA EU (former EU 19) DMA EU (former EU 20)  bobo
kk
cc
aa
bb
G G 
Enel’s 2020-2022 Strategic Plan conﬁrms the Group’s at- the project is carried out in compliance with applicable in- ESES
tention to aspects such as growth of renewables and the  ternational standards, considering possible impacts on the 
development  of  low-carbon  technologies,  such  as  the  different forms of physical, human, economic, environmen-
digitalization of the grids, installation of charging stations,  tal and cultural capital of the concerned populations. Any 
software platforms and public lighting, thereby abandoning  resettlement projects will be carried out in compliance with 
investments in coal plants and the construction of large in- the applicable legislation of the involved country, including 
frastructure projects with a high environmental impact. This  the local regulations that specify the conditions for resettle-
strategy helps the Group be more ﬂexible and minimise  ment and the methods for calculating the related economic 
e
the impacts on the ecosystem, territory and community.  compensation. Enel’s sensitivity regarding this issue is also  ot
n
Presence in such a vast geographic perimeter of countries  reﬂected in the Human Rights Policy approved in 2013 by  cal 
gi
and regions necessarily calls for the evaluation of very dif- the Board of Directors (see chapter “Sound governance”).  olo
d
o
ferent scenarios and radical knowledge of each area and  A description is provided below of the most signiﬁcant cas- eth
M
the needs of the various stakeholders in order to identify  es in progress related to plants constructed in the past but 
targeted solutions. Each infrastructure project is discussed  that present residual areas of criticality, the positive and/
therefore, with evaluations by the community and involved  or negative impacts (actual or ‘feared’) on the territory and 
stakeholders, which could involve criticism or partial ac- the way in which the concerned Group companies are pro-
ceptance in some cases, especially when related to reset- moting a proactive dialogue to reach solutions that are as 
tlement activities. In these latter cases, the Group may be  widely shared as possible. 
exposed to reputational risks, also in relation to their inter-
x
di
action with local suppliers, as well as operational risks relat- n
e
Bocamina plant (Chile) p
ed to delays in executing projects or completing them, with  Ap
& 
possible repercussions on the supply chain. The involve- d 
n
o
ment of the stakeholders in the processes for the planning  The Bocamina II plant is a 350 MW coal-fired thermoelectric  n B
e
and development of the infrastructure is of fundamental  power plant whose construction started in 2007 in the mu- Gre
importance, especially if the construction of a new plant  nicipality of Coronel, Region of Bío Bío, in Chile. The plant is 
involves the resettlement of a part of the resident popula- part of the Bocamina coal-fired thermoelectric power plant, 
tion in the surrounding areas. Resettlement management  whose first unit, 128 MW, was built in the 60s and put in op-
must involve the population and the concerned persons as  eration in the 1970. The second unit was built in an area next 
well as a close evaluation of the psychological and social  to the first, with approximately 1,300 families living nearby. 
problems that are possible at an individual and collective  When the construction of the second unit started, the initial 
level. The approach in selecting potential sites is therefore  agreements were signed in the area of the municipality of 
to minimise as much as possible the need to move the  Coronel with the families of the communities near the plant. 
population. This is done by analysing the economic, polit- At the end of 2019, out of a total of 1,337 families, 1,237 
ical, cultural and social-demographic aspects, including an  were relocated. The method for relocating families has been 
analysis of the daily life of the communities that live in the  completely reviewed and aligned with the main applicable 
area of inﬂuence, the distribution of the population, the  international standards, including standard IFC no. 5 “Land 
organisational forms, the employment and remuneration  Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement”. 
levels. In the cases in which resettlement is conﬁrmed,  Starting in January 2017, Enel started a detailed analysis pro-
Community and shared value 115