cess in order to identify the suitable actions to implement in  local economic development, the recovery of public spac-
order to improve relationships with the local community. This  es and the development of the human capital of Coronel, 
analysis was carried out also with the support of a company  including:
with considerable experience in this topic, “Environmental  >  circular economy projects: in the community of Cerro 
Resources Management” (ERM), and an action plan was pre- Obligado a training project was started previously for 
pared based on the results. Community relations were man- women in eco-construction and eco-furnishing. The pro-
aged based on the criteria of accountability, transparency,  ject was implemented in collaboration with the Sembra 
measurement and fairness of the solutions, in order to create  NGO, and as of today has trained four women. Today 
shared value over the long term. The main actions concerned:  the so-called ecological carpenters work in their labora-
>  the identification of structural improvements needed for  tory in Coronel, where they reuse pallets and other ma-
the homes in the communities of Huertos Familiares and  terials from various local industries, transforming them 
Doña Isidora. In 2018, a technical committee was formed,  into furniture and other types of objects. The workshop 
comprised of representatives of the Company, the com- also has electrical means of transport to deliver their 
munity and the CITEC (Universidad del Bío Bío), which fo- products. As of today, this company has recycled more 
cused on identifying the repairs that were necessary for  than 1,000 pallets coming from local industry and has 
the homes with construction defects. During 2019, the  made more than 700 pieces of furniture;
technical problems were identified for all the houses and  >  participatory art for the recovery of public spaces: by 
the repair work was planned, to be started in 2020; means of a community participatory process, Chile’s 
>  the creation of a dashboard summarising the impacts on  longest mural was created in Coronel, located outside 
the quality of life of the families due to the construction de- the perimeter wall of the Bocamina power plant. The 
fects in the homes in which the communities lived starting  project involved more than 70 people, from children of 
from 2010, as well as the quantification and liquidation of  the age of 7 up to 80 year old grandparents;
the relative compensation;  >  Coronel cleaning plan: the plan involves the elimination 
>  the relocation of the churches that had not been involved  of the micro-waste landfills and the removal of residual 
in the resettlement process. To date, 7 churches are being  materials from the homes where the transferred fam-
built, and the first was opened at the beginning of 2020; ilies lived previously, avoiding environmental impacts 
>  the agreement for the reconstruction of the historical  and situations of abandonment and insecurity;
school in Coronel, “Rosa Medel”, in another location, in- >  Casa Abierta Coronel: a place of reference for the en-
cluding financing by Enel Generación of soil study and the  tire community, in line with Enel’s Open Power vision, 
cofinancing for the reconstruction of the school; where it is possible to speak openly with the Company, 
>  the development of the programme “Mi barrio, nuestro  receive information, communicate any complaints and 
barrio” (“My neighbourhood, our neighbourhood”) which  evaluate solutions with a group of available experts. 
includes the implementation of requalification projects for  The criteria at the basis are transparency, fairness and 
new and pre-existing neighbourhoods in the area of plant  non-discrimination.
influence. During 2019, construction was completed for a  In 2019, Enel Chile signed an agreement with the country’s 
sports centre in the community of Huertos Familiares as  government for the gradual decommissioning of the three 
well as eco-construction works of the site in the Cerro Ob- coal-fired electric power plants. The first, Tarapacá, was 
ligado neighbourhood and a recreational area with green  closed in December 2019, whereas the Bocamina 1 and 2 
spaces and eco-sustainable infrastructures; power plants are to be closed respectively in 2023 and 2040. 
>  the development of a transparent and fair system for  Further information can be found in the Enel Chile and Enel 
managing  community  claims  and/or  requests.  This  Generación Chile Sustainability Report (www.enelgenera-
system made it possible to successfully resolve more  cion.cl).
than 100 cases, thanks to a multifunctional team that 
includes legal experts as well as resettlement and sus-
tainability consultants, and that guarantees the verifiabil-
ity, transparency and fairness of the solutions.
During 2019, innovative initiatives were implemented for 
116 Sustainability Report 2019