s
ar
pill
ur 
O
Alto Bío Bío plants
(Ralco, Pangue  
and Palmucho – Chile) 
Enel Generación Chile manages three hydroelectric power 
ss
ee
plants in the area of Alto Bío Bío (Ralco, Pangue and Palmu- onon
bb
kk
cho), an area that is characterized by the historical presence  acac
bb
of the indigenous Pehuenche populations. In numbers, the  SG SG 
EE
Pehuenche population in the area of influence of the plants 
amounts to approximately 3,000 people, made up of 800 
families in 10 communities (Pitril, Callaqui, El Avellano, Aukiñ 
Wallmapu, Quepuca Ralco, Ralco Lepoy, El Barco, Guayalí, 
Pewen Mapu and Ayin Mapu). 
In February 2017, an important collaboration agreement was  tourism were started. In particular, one was started for the 
signed with 25 families of the Aukiñ Wallmapu community  area adjacent to the El Barco Laguna, where local business 
to start local development projects. The agreement resolves  people currently offer camping, tour and gastronomy ser- ote
n
the conflict regarding the impacts generated during the con- vices. More than 6,000 tourists visit the area every season,  al 
c
gi
struction of the Ralco plant. In March 2017, Enel Generación  representing an important potential for this initiative. The  olo
d
Chile officially handed over its ancestral cemetery to the  collaboration between Enel and the community was carried  ho
et
community of El Barco. This was made possible thanks to  out mainly in order to improve the health situation of the  M
the support of the Director General de la Corporación Na- area, install new toilet facilities and drains for the treatment 
cional de Desarollo Indigena (CONADI) of the Bío Bío region,  of the waste water. A project is being developed in Los Cha-
thereby  concretely  demonstrating  the  commitment  the  icanes to promote potato cultivation. The initiative, which in-
Company made with the community following the construc- itially aimed to sell the tuber locally to be eaten fresh, led to 
tion of the Pangue power plant. In June 2017, Enel Gener- the production of seed potatoes and the recognition of the 
ación Chile also signed two agreements with the El Avellano  project by the agricultural and zootechnical service (Servicio 
x
and Quepuca Ralco communities.  Agrícola y Ganadero - SAG) as one of the 17 producers au- ndi
e
p
thorised to sell seed potatoes in the 32 communities of the  Ap
Social-economic development & 
region of La Araucanía.  d 
n
o
Following a request made mainly by the El Avellano com- As concerns the direct support of local families and stu- B
n 
e
munity, a community project was created in 2018 for the  dents, Enel assigns scholarships to finance school fees, the  e
Gr
collection, transformation and sale of hazelnuts. In 2019,  accommodations for young people in the cities where the 
the production department was inaugurated, which made it  schools are located and other school materials. This initiative 
possible for the community to transform its autochthonous  has involved more than 700 students.
hazelnuts into subproducts to supply to the market, thereby 
expanding sales to other customers. The project is promot-
Shared and sustainable
ed by Enel Generación Chile, together with the University 
water management
of Concepción, the community of El Avellano, the munici-
pality of Alto Bío Bío and the Pehuén foundation. It made it  The Chilean Ministry of Public Works and Enel Generación 
possible to transform a traditional activity into a micro-entre- Chile have signed an agreement, which was subsequently 
preneurial activity for the community, while also preserving  ratified also with the local associations that manage the irri-
the natural hazelnut forest. In consideration of the touristic  gation channels in the area of Saltos del Laja, in the Bío Bío 
and recreational potential of the areas near the plants, and  region. The objective of the agreement is to improve the 
in order to promote the social-economic development of the  flexibility of use of the water, ensuring the supply to families 
local communities, specific projects promoting sustainable  and the power generation. The initiative is the result of a 
Community and shared value 117