joint effort with the associations Canalistas del Laja and Can- El Quimbo plant (Colombia)
alistas del Canal Zañartu, Dirección de Obras Hidráulicas, Di-
 
rección General de Aguas, Enel Generación Chile, Ministerio 
El Quimbo is the most imposing civil engineering project 
de Agricultura, Ministerio de Energía and Comisión Nacional 
realised by the Enel Group over the past years and rep-
de Riego. There is also an agreement with the municipality 
resents one of the greatest hydroelectric investments in 
of Antuco in order to start a pilot project to promote tourism 
South America. The power plant has an installed capacity 
in the area of Salto del Trubunleo during summer. In order 
of more than 400 MW and is located in the region of Huila, 
to manage possible contingent or emergency situations in 
south-west of Bogotá. With a shared and participatory ap-
a quick and coordinated manner, a specific communication 
proach, starting from December 2014, a multi-year plan of 
system was defined between the power plants of Pangue 
social-environmental projects was defined in favour of the 
and Ralco of Enel Generación Chile, the Angostura di Colbún 
local population, and in particular families living in or owning 
power station, the municipalities of Alto Bío Bío, Quilaco and 
property in the area of project influence, as well as those 
Santa Bárbara, the Ministry of the Interior and Public Securi-
who work or have business activities and services in this 
ty (ONEMI) and the Ministry of Energy. For further informa-
area. The families that were surveyed and who meet the 
tion, please refer to Enel Chile and Enel Generación Chile 
requirements were given the possibility to decide between 
Sustainability Reports (www.enelgeneracion.cl). 
relocation (collective/individual) and the sale of their land. 
Just a bit more south, in the region of Los Lagos, in the Map-
Of the 152 families who decided for relocation, 40 selected 
uche community of Mapu Pilmaiquén, a project was started 
individual relocation, receiving land for their productive and 
to return approximately 6 hectares of indigenous land near 
residential project. The remaining 112 families opted for 
the Pilmaiquén hydroelectric power station. Today, the com-
relocation in the collective settlements (Montea, Santiago 
munity manages this territory with a sustainable tourism 
y Palacio, Llano de la Virgen, San José de Belén), with new 
project, opening the area’s ecosystem to visitors, which is 
homes provided with essential services and inserted with-
explained according to the Mapuche cosmovision of con-
in an urban context with schools, churches, multi-purpose 
servation of the equilibrium of natural resources. This are-
sports facilities, a football field, green areas, a waste recy-
as, which is called Parque La Isla, welcomes approximately 
cling centre and waste water treatment plants. Each family 
6,000 tourists every year, which brings economic benefits to 
also received 5 hectares of land with an irrigation system 
the community. A large amount of their profits are invested 
in order to develop their own productive activity (crops or 
in park conservation. Thanks to the training of local artisans 
mini ranches).
and the growing flow of visitors, an increasing number of 
people can benefit from this project by selling their products. 
Social-cultural management
To guarantee the presence of the beautiful waterfalls, Enel 
In 2019, within the scope of the policy of creating shared 
Generación Chile releases the water from its hydroelectric 
value with the community of the collective resettlement of 
operation to the benefit of local tourism. 
San José de Belén de le Veredas, La Galda and Yaguilga, 
In the region of Maule, where Enel Generación Chile shares 
of the municipality of El Agrado, in the Department of Hui-
the available water in the hydroelectric basins with the agri-
la, 20 wells for the irrigation of the crops were constructed 
cultural sector, a project was started already in 2015 for the 
and placed in operation4. Meetings continued and were in-
optimisation of the agricultural irrigation process, in collabo-
tensified between the elderly, children and young people of 
ration with CITRA (Center for Irrigation and Agroclimatology 
the resettled communities, to promote the transmission of 
Research ) of the University of Talca. Thanks to the adopted 
the historical memory of the area and intergenerational ex-
techniques, it is possible to reduce water use by more than 
change. Two training courses were held for the community 
40%. More than 700 farmers were trained in sustainable irri-
leaders, together with seven support activities for the main-
gation techniques and experimental fields were started with 
the local agricultural school to train the new generations.
4 Even if in 2018 an agreement was reached with the communities for the 
construction of 23 wells, at the end of 2018 an agreement was signed 
for the construction of 21 wells, and, in 2019, 20 were built, as 3 families 
decided to withdraw from the project.
118 Sustainability Report 2019