munes (more than 1,000 participants), 11 training courses 
for the communities, 508 visits for promoting good environ-
mental practices with the resettled families; eight ecological 
groups, 49 actions focused on sustainable tourism together 
with the local administration and the community organisa-
tions.
In general, Enel is adopting all the measures necessary for 
preventing and managing the environmental impact associ-
ated with the project, including:
>  a plan for managing wild fauna, with the recovery of ap-
proximately 40 thousand animals during 2015-2019; 
>  a programme for managing fishing, which identified 25 
species of fish, with a total capture of approximately 
239,000 kg with more than 413,000 fish;
>  a plan for the recovery of the habitat of the wild fauna, 
through the replanting of approximately 31,000 plants 
and the installation of various structures for the protec-
tion of the fauna. Furthermore, the activities of the re-
search centre established by Emgesa continued;
>  an ecological restoration programme for the protection 
and development of native species in the tropical dry 
forests through a quality analysis of the fruits, seeds and 
percentage of germination.
Communication channels and legal 
proceedings
Specific communication channels were defined to provide 
information and respond to all the questions from the com-
munity regarding the project (dedicated web page, social  Other projects
channels, newsletter, etc.). In 2019, approximately 1,000 
complaints were received through the community relations 
850 MW EGP-Nareva consortium 
offices regarding the services and commitments included 
wind power program
in the Environmental License, to which prompt responses 
were given. In 2019, 177 accompaniment and consultancy  In March 2016, a consortium of three companies, Enel 
visits were carried out in the four resettlements. Additional  Green Power, Siemens Wind Power and the Moroccan pow-
initiatives and information about the projects are available in  er company Nareva, was awarded the project for the devel-
the Emgesa Sustainability Report 2019 (https://www.enel. opment, construction and management of five wind plants 
com.co/es/medio-ambiente-desarrollo-sostenible.html)  and  in the communes of Midelt, Tanger, Jbel Lahdid, Boujdour 
on the website dedicated to the project (https://www.enel. and Tiskrad with a total installed capacity of 850 MW. Their 
com.co/es/conoce-enel/enel-emgesa/el-quimbo.html). construction will require a total investment of approximately 
1 billion euros. 
In preparation of the tender process described above, Enel 
Green Power carried out a preliminary analysis of the social, 
economic and environmental context (SEECA) with the help 
of external specialists in the areas where it planned to build 
the plants. The SEECA identified the relevant social-econom-
ic issues and the specific needs of the local communities 
120 Sustainability Report 2019