s
ar
pill
ur 
O
that include: develop of infrastructures, development of edu- Furthermore, the environmental impacts were measured 
cation, health care, development of services, poverty, social  and therefore mitigated by adopting virtuous solutions and 
services, land ownership and protection of cultural heritage.  actions regarding emissions, water consumption and waste. 
Furthermore, an Environmental Social Impact Assessment  The main solutions that were implemented are indicated be-
(ESIA) was carried out in compliance with the standards of  low:
the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and with the guide- >  CO emissions: photovoltaic mini-grid to power the base 
2
lines of the European Bank, for investments in the Midelt pro- camp and auxiliary services; generation of photovolta- ss
ee
nn
oo
ject, which is being carried out for the Boujdour project and  ic energy integrated with batteries used to power the  bb
kk
cc
will be developed for the remaining projects.  turbine  monitoring  phase,  autonomous  photovoltaic  baba
G G 
ONEE (Office National de l’Electricité et de l’Eau Potable) car- modules to power prefabricated buildings/containers at  ESES
ried out a process of consultation with various stakeholders,  the base camp; street lights powered by photovoltaic 
with the involvement of the Enel Green Power-Nareva con- plants; 
sortium in Midelt, Boujdour and Jbel Lahdid. At the end of  >  the use of water, encouraging recycling: the construc-
each consultation, a question and answer session was held.  tion of small dams for rain water and water collection 
The process of analysing the project impacts and benefits will  systems with tanks on trucks; the reuse of rain water 
guide the definition and adopting of the Sustainability Plan for  for the production of concrete, while avoiding pollution 
each project. due to dust; restoration of the drilling well used by the 
e
Enel Green Power operates in full compliance with the laws  community and installation of a pumping system via a  ot
n
al 
applicable to the investment in question. This investment  photovoltaic system; installation of the water treatment  c
gi
o
does not involve extraction activities, and the use of local re- system;  ol
d
o
newable resources will support the social, economic and en- >  use of materials and recycling: crushing and reuse of  eth
M
vironmental development of the various areas involved. The  100%  of  the  excavation  materials  originating  from 
investment also complies with the principles adopted by the  works during construction to improve the conditions of 
international community concerning environmental protection  the roads and hillsides, and to create new access roads 
and the reduction of emissions from coal. In all of the areas in- and bridges used also by the community; recycling of 
volved in the projects, the consortium will carry out a second  waste water using a septic tank; recycling waste deriv-
SEECA, also to identify any updates to the analyses that were  ing from liquid oil, recycling of the utilised wood pallets 
carried out previously. The actions and projects identified by  to create signs at the site.  x
di
the analyses will be developed when the plant is in opera- Further actions will be implemented during the construction  en
p
p
tion. However, starting from the project development phase,  phase in Midelt during 2020, and a second SEECA was al- A
& 
the consortium will also implement sustainability activities to  ready started at the site in order to update the issues that  nd 
o
B
mitigate the environmental impacts, in particular as concerns  emerged during the first analysis and develop specific sus- n 
e
e
water, emissions and waste, by creating a sustainable con- tainability projects during the O&M (Operation and Mainte- Gr
struction site. The impacts on local social and employment  nance) phase.
aspects will also be managed through the requirements of  As regards the Boujdour project, the consortium has start-
technical specifications during every tender phase prior to the  ed the preliminary activities in view of the construction that 
construction of the plant, and will be monitored as a result.  will start during the second half of 2020. The sustainability 
For the Midelt plant, the financial close took place on Novem- actions applied to Midelt will be replicated also at Boujdour, 
ber 5, 2018, and the construction phase started in December  including the actions for supporting the creation of jobs for 
2018 and will end in November 2020. The Midelt construc- the local community and the use of local SMBs. 
tion site has been constructed according to the model of a 
sustainable construction site. It is creating positive impacts on 
local communities in terms of employment and the training/
transfer of skills: 300 workers, selected from local commu-
nities, were trained and employed by contractors and active 
local SMBs, for example in the transport, hotel, restaurant and 
cleaning sectors.
Community and shared value 121