s
ar
pill
ur 
O
Enel Cuore Onlus  
(non-proﬁt organisation)
Enel Cuore Onlus was founded in 2003 due to Enel’s de- which the judge ordered the suspension of the sen- ss
ee
nn
sire to express its commitment to social solidarity on a  tence with so-called “probation”, an alternative meas- bobo
kk
cc
more transparent manner. It supports initiatives promoted  ure to detention, which involves a process of self-as- baba
G G 
by non profit organisations that address the wellbeing of  sessment and growth for the development of soft skills  SS
EE
the individual and the family, in particular in the communi- and technical-professional training in a digital field, in 
ties where Enel is present.  line with the current job market demand. The initia-
During 2019, the Group confirmed its orientation towards  tives involved 20 teenagers who committed crimes in 
multi-year projects with a large impact and dimension for  Rome. At the end of the 250 hours of training, 10 of 
the community regarding specific current issues. Spac- the minors will start internships at a company and so-
es for learning, growth, study and work were created for  cial-economic reintegration processes; 
children and youth, to help them become independent. As  >  Miglior inizio (A better start), a pilot project devel-
e
regards the topic of educational inequality, projects were  oped on a national level to support infancy and new  ot
n
promoted to offer young people living in socially-econom- parents during the most delicate phase of their child’s  cal 
gi
o
ically disadvantaged situations the same educational and  life. This project includes material (such as a contri- ol
d
o
cultural opportunities as those who instead have all the  bution towards food or daycare expenses) as well as  h
et
M
economic and social means that are necessary. Finally,  psych-social support actions, with the aim of strength-
specific interventions were carried out in favour of children  ening the skills of parents during the perinatal period. 
in health structures, promoting their accommodation and  A social network has been created in support of the 
the assistance of patients and families through parental  project that, by integrating accredited bodies and ser-
support projects as well as through the donation of state- vices, will make the initiative sustainable over time. 
of-the-art equipment. The main projects targeted towards  The project involves five large cities;
children, adolescents and the future generations are de- >  Nuovo e Grande Buzzi (New and large Buzzi), a pro-
x
di
scribed below: ject that involves the construction of a new 7-storey  en
p
p
>  Base Camp for Future Education, an experimental,  pavilion connected to the Buzzi paediatric hospital in  A
& 
two-year project that offers educational opportunities  Milan, dedicated to emergencies and high intensity  d 
n
o
to adolescents with economic difficulties in the periph- care. The new pavilion will house the emergency room,  n B
e
eral areas of Rome, Naples and Palermo, through the  the day hospital, operating rooms, the intensive and  Gre
creation of three educational “Base Camp” centres,  sub-intensive paediatric care unit and neonatal patholo-
that is learning environments where a team of careful- gy. Enel Cuore has decided to support the Buzzi Foun-
ly selected and trained teachers, educators and psy- dation by donating a new 3 Tesla whole-body magnetic 
chologists work to help teenagers between the ages  resonance machine, contributing towards the creation 
of 13 and 16, following them in their studies through  of Italy’s first “x-ray free” paediatric hospital.
an empathetic and stimulating approach to help them  For more information please refer to 
with their school education. There is also a calendar  www.enelcuore.it/en.html.
of high-quality cultural and artistic events targeted to-
wards the students and the community in the territory 
where the Base Camp is active, in order to provide fur-
ther simulation to people who would otherwise find it 
difficult to access this type of offer;
>  Fenix project, a rehabilitation process that promotes 
the reinsertion of minors who committed crimes for 
Community and shared value 123