Sustainability governance
Sustainability Report 
Sound governance
Commitment to the fight against climate change
Report on corporate governance
102-18 102-19 102-20 ecution of specific actions, and reporting  ment (NFS) pursuant to Legislative 
102-26 102-29 102-32 and management of ESG ratings and sus- Decree no. 254/16, after consulting 
tainability indices.  the Control and Risks Committee and 
Over the past few years Enel has pursued  >  The  Board  of  Directors  examines  the Corporate Governance and Sus-
a specific governance structure based on  and approves the strategic, industrial  tainability Committee.
international best practices and permeat- and financial plans, including the an- >  Among other aspects, the Corporate 
ing  corporate,  decisional,  and  operative  nual budget and the Group Business  Governance  and  Sustainability 
processes  throughout  the  entire  value  Plan, which incorporate the principal  Committee  monitors  the  sustaina-
chain. Integration of environmental, social  guidelines to promote a sustainable  bility topics linked to the pursuit of 
and governance factors is guaranteed by  business model and lay the basis for  operating  activities  and  interaction 
means of structured processes involving:  long-term value creation. The Board  between the Company and its stake-
sustainability context analysis, identifica- is responsible for approving the Sus- holders; examines the guidelines of 
tion of priorities for the Company and its  tainability Report, which constitutes  the Sustainability Plan and the meth-
stakeholders, sustainability planning, ex- the Consolidated Non-Financial State- ods of implementation of the sustain-
Integration of ESG factors 
Integration of environmental, social and governance 
in comfpaacntoyr sm (#aEnSaGg)e imn ecnomt pany management
1 2 3
SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT MATERIALITY ANALYSIS SUSTAINABILITY PLAN
Analysis of ESG trends and main risks. Identiﬁcation of the priority issues  Deﬁnition of ESG objectives, in line 
for the Group and for stakeholders. with the UN SDGs, to promote a 
sustainable business model 
ESG RATING AND  ESG RATING AND 
throughout the entire value chain.
SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY 
INDICES INDICES
Assessment of  Assessment of 
Enel’s ESG  Enel’s ESG 
5 4
performance. performance.
REPORTING ACTIONS
Reporting and communication of  Daily commitment to create sustainable 
ESG performance, in line with the  value for all stakeholders, thinking 
reference standards. globally and acting locally.
12 Sustainability Report 2019