s
ar
pill
ur 
O
of customer relations (apps for customers, chatbots on social 
networks, virtual assistants), digital payments and digital ex-
tended payment plans (“Everywhere commerce”), “Voice of 
customer” for continual improvement, circular economy and 
bill discounts, inclusive offers for senior, disadvantaged, low 
income, and vulnerable customers, alongside a paperless sys-
tem and innovative and inclusive digital services, responsible  ss
ee
nn
consumption, and flexible offers thanks to the use of the new  bobo
kk
cc
Open Meters. The innovation process is monitored through  baba
G G 
the use of specific indicators. ESES
Digital portal:  
openinnovability.com
Group also further extended its areas of collaboration with  The  “openinnovability.com”  online  crowdsourcing  plat-
e
startups, providing access to all 20 of the Group’s laboratories  form is a digital meeting place where the dialogue is always  ot
n
specialising in the main areas of technological development,  open and the ideas limitless. The five steps that make up  cal 
gi
o
including smart grids, renewables, and digitalization, with the  the crowdsourcing process consist in identifying a need,  ol
d
o
aim of promoting direct liaisons between Business Lines and  issuing a challenge, sharing it with the outside world, as- eth
M
startups. Thanks to its capillary presence in innovation eco- sessing proposals received and finally, rewarding the best, 
systems and the organisation of more than 25 bootcamps –  also economically. The initiatives are inspired by the UN 
scouting initiatives dedicated to specific technologies of inter- Sustainable Development Goals and oriented towards fa-
est to the Group, in 2019 Enel established contact with some  cilitating access to energy by promoting new technologies 
2,500 startups and launched more than 60 new collabora- and seeking innovative and sustainable solutions to unre-
tions. Projects started in 2019 include collaboration with a  solved problems. The community created is composed of 
Catania-based startup engaged in building an automated plat- some 400 thousand solvers and has allowed Enel to es- x
di
form for the remote control of photovoltaic plants. In addition,  tablish a global presence, with more than 100 countries  en
p
p
a network of partners has been created to help startups and  having actively participated in the challenges. In 2019, Enel  A
& 
small and medium-sized enterprises working with the Group  launched 25 innovation and sustainability challenges, of  nd 
o
B
to grow, gaining access to capital and industrialising their  which 10 cross-posted also on partner platforms, 4 dedi- n 
e
solutions to streamline wide-sale dissemination. cated exclusively to people working within the Company  Gre
In conformity with statutory legislation and Enel’s compliance  and 9 that offered the winners the opportunity of working 
programs, innovation activities are managed by the Innovabil- with the Group. A total of 73 challenges have been issued 
ity (Innovation and Sustainability) Function in liaison with the  since the platform was established. Among the challenges 
Holding Functions and Business Lines in all the Group’s oper- launched in 2019, we draw your attention to “Mass cus-
ating countries. Dedicated facilities on the Business Lines lev- tomization & inclusion”, aimed at collecting innovative 
el have been set up to facilitate the development and dissem- ideas and proposals for customized products and services 
ination of innovative solutions. A three-year innovation plan  in relation to diversity and inclusion issues, in which the 
is drafted annually, in line with and supporting the Group’s  winning proposal was the “e-domorent” project for sus-
strategic priorities. The plan is subject to approval of the  tainable use of home appliances. A challenge was also 
Group Innovation Committee, which is chaired by the Chief  launched to identify chemical free solutions for cooling 
Executive Officer, and shared with top management. The in- circuits treatment, with the aim of eliminating or reducing 
novation priorities for the period 2020-2022 are connected  the use of chemical products.
to the Group’s strategic pillars and achievement of the Sus-
tainable Development Goals, and they concern: digitalization 
Innovation and digitalization 129