The culture of Innovability alongside the Italian regulatory bodies to support the 
development of civil aviation regulations applicable to 
In 2019 Enel opened a new Idea Hub in Peru, thus strength- drones.
ening the promotion and development of a culture of innova- >  Augmented reality devices and wearables – Enel is 
tion and entrepreneurship within the Company, with 6 Idea  active in collaboration and trials for spectacles and devic-
Hubs already present in Chile, Colombia, Brazil, Italy, Iberia  es to assist with various work activities, and innovative 
and Romania. 2019 saw the continuation of the “Innova- methods for virtual meetings and new forms of remote 
tion Academy” training project launched in 2017 in order to  collaboration. Wearables are mainly applied for worker 
provide Enel people with skills and know-how on innovative  safety, such as sensors to check correct use of personal 
working methods and provide soft skills training. The themat- protective equipment, to track personnel on job sites 
ic areas addressed were creativity, development of ideas, col- to avoid interference, and devices to help people carry 
laboration, emotional intelligence, customer focus and listen- out their work in “hands free” mode, without having to 
ing in order to drive change starting from individuals. In 2019  interact with potential sources of distraction including 
the Academy operated in Italy, Spain, Chile, Colombia and  smartphones and paper documentation. The latest ap-
Brazil with part of the courses delivered by internal tutors and  plications include safety jackets and thermal clothing, 
with the participation of the Idea Hubs and Innovation Ambas- and applications are currently being studied for tracking 
sadors. The Innovation Ambassadors project, launched in  stress and health indicators.
2018, has been expanded and upgraded by bringing in more  >  Robotics – Robotic systems are equipped with inno-
than 200 Enel people from various Functions and company  vative sensors and enormous capacity for data man-
areas in Italy, Brazil, Chile and Colombia, in order to make in- agement, processing and transmission, thus becoming 
novation an integral part of daily activities by means of spe- ever more versatile and reliable. Enel is extending the 
cific working methods. Ongoing initiatives also include the  adoption of Exoskeleton technology to reduce the 
“MAKE IT HAPPEN!” entrepreneurship programme, created  muscular effort required for heavy work, and Remotely 
to allow Enel business people to emerge, with the opportu- Operated Vehicles (ROV) used for inspection and main-
nity to propose and develop new business models or internal  tenance of plants (solar and hydroelectric).
improvement projects able to create value for the Company.  >  Artificial intelligence – The community includes vari-
110 project proposals were submitted in 2019, of which 62  ous data scientists, is the most numerous, and covers 
in the planning phase, one in the acceleration phase, and two  a vast range of applications on safety processes, video 
in the implementation phase, with the involvement of more  analysis, machine learning and deep learning for classifi-
than 300 people in 11 countries.  cation, fault detection, predictive maintenance and virtu-
al assistants. Enel is applying more than 40 digitalization 
and artificial intelligence technologies to manage South 
Innovation Communities
American electricity networks for the first time. The in-
itiative includes the development of a 3D replica of the 
Energy storage, blockchains, drones, augmented and vir- Vila Olímpia electricity grid, plus installation of around 
tual reality, 3D printing, artiﬁcial intelligence, wearables,  4,900 sensors to collect network performance data. 
robotics and green hydrogen are just some of the tech- Network Digital Twin® technologies, which include 
nologies addressed by the innovation communities, which  more than 170 initiatives and new collaborations and 
involve various areas and skills within the Company. 24 partners, will allow remote access in real time, im-
>  Drones – The use of drones continued also in 2019 in  proving operation of the Enel network and hence the 
activities of asset monitoring and maintenance, inspect- service quality supplied to customers in the region.
ing solar energy fields, wind farms, hydroelectric dams  >  Additive manufacturing by means of 3D printing – 
and reservoirs, closed components in traditional plants  Additive manufacturing of mechanical components can 
and electricity distribution networks with the aim of  benefit from the new Direct Energy Machines Addi-
boosting the efficiency of operating, maintenance and  tive printer, which was installed this year in the Santa 
functional processes and, especially, reducing work- Bárbara facility. Together with laser scanners and ma-
ers risk exposure. The community also works actively  terials testing laboratories, the 3D printer allows Enel 
130 Sustainability Report 2019