s
ar
pill
ur 
O
groundwork needed to gain insights and perform actions of 
a strategic and organisational nature in the future. 
At the end of 2019, the Group held a total of 826 patents 
for industrial inventions, subject to specific normative pro-
tection, mainly concerning the Global Infrastructure & Net-
works (506 patents), Enel X (188 patents) and Global Power 
Generation (132 patents) Business Lines. 83% of the pat- eses
nn
oo
ents have already completed the registration procedure,  bb
kk
cc
aa
while the remaining 17% is awaiting the result of the patent  bb
G G 
SS
office examination phase. On a geographical basis, the pat- EE
ents owned by the Group are distributed across 57 different 
countries, mainly in Italy (652), then in the US (137), Brazil 
(19), Spain (9) and Colombia (9). 
to repair valuable components subject to wear (turbine  In the framework of the Global Infrastructure & Networks 
blades, burner components) and redesign and make in- Business Line, the patents portfolio is mainly related to smart 
novative components with complex geometries and in  metering systems and other technologies, resulting from a 
special materials. multi-annual activity of research and development aimed 
e
>  Energy Storage – The use of storage systems produc- primarily at extending the functions and information acces- not
es an improvement in levels of reliability and an increase  sible to customers, at simplifying the remote management  gical 
o
in network quality indicators. Together with traditional  of devices, optimising processes of communication with the  ol
d
o
generation, energy storage guarantees balancing of the  central systems, and preventing any tamper attempts.  eth
M
network and stability of system loads on a country-wide  The most significant patents of the Enel X Business Line 
level. The use of batteries is of critical importance in  include smart charging technologies for charging points that 
supporting microgrids, especially for the network ser- take into consideration system requirements, customer be-
vice on minor islands. haviour, and environmental factors (patent granted in the 
>   Green hydrogen – A community was set up in 2019 to  US) and optimisation mechanisms for B2B customer energy 
study applications linked to the production of hydrogen  systems which, through the management of electricity con-
by means of electrolysis processes powered by electric- sumption, help to identify the ideal balance point between  x
di
ity from renewable sources.   economic sustainability and system efficiency (patent grant- en
p
p
ed in the US and pending in Canada, Australia and South  & A
Intellectual property:   Korea). ond 
B
The Global Power Generation Business Line has developed  n 
e
innovation driver e
patents related in particular to decarbonization of the energy  Gr
mix and digitalization. Patents of special significance include, 
Intellectual property is the essential driver of innovation and  for example: patent for hydroelectric plant application that 
Enel has launched a specific project for its measurement  allows hydraulic turbine performance optimisation (patent 
and assessment, also in order to share the impacts and gen- granted in Italy and Spain and pending in Brazil), patent for 
erate value among the various stakeholders.  thermoelectric plants that makes it possible to detect the 
For this purpose, in liaison with a research group guided by  buckets closed condition automatically, thus increasing the 
Roma Tre University and composed of researchers from  efficiency and safety of solids loading and unloading pro-
several academic institutions, the project involves the var- cesses (patent granted in Italy and pending in France and 
ious Business Lines and is aimed at identifying and organis- Germany), and, for photovoltaic plants, a patent for improved 
ing intellectual property, construed as the portfolio of intan- efficiency of solar cells (patent granted in Italy, with proce-
gible assets created by human ingenuity (such as patents  dures currently under way for extension to France, Germany 
or software). A digital platform for monitoring and evalua- and Spain and, beyond the EU, to the US, Japan and China).
tion has also been launched, making it possible to map the 
patents held by the Group for the first time and to do the 
Innovation and digitalization 131