s
ar
pill
ur 
O
ss
ee
nn
oo
bb
kk
cc
aa
bb
G G 
SS
EE
e
ot
n
al 
c
gi
o
ol
d
o
h
et
M
ture, to disseminating a culture of cyber security in line with  market. In addition, the “Enel X Digital Hub” Function has 
SDGs 9 and 11, to virtualization of the asset management  been reorganised, with the introduction of a Digital Factory 
x
di
operating activities, and to promoting the use of videocom- for each Product Line to manage design, development and  n
e
p
p
munication systems, in accordance with SDG 12.  adoption of the associated digital solutions. A
& 
Digital transformation in Enel is guided by the “Global Dig- To support the business over the next three years specif- d 
n
o
ital Solutions” unit which, working together with all the  ic investments are planned to develop the platform busi- n B
e
Holding’s Business Lines and Functions, guides strategic  ness model, which will primarily involve the three com- Gre
choices, defines the paths of development and guarantees  pany areas of Global Infrastructure and Networks, Retail, 
their implementation. The Enel operating models call for an  and Enel X. For Infrastructure and Networks the global 
agile working approach to anticipate market demand, with  platform will make it possible to standardise operations 
constant attention paid to the satisfaction of internal and ex- and maintenance, customer management processes, and 
ternal customers, to guarantee innovation and flexibility and  allocation of resources and systems. For Retail, a global 
the Company’s ability to adapt and react to change rapid- platform will be constructed to allow standardisation of 
ly. The “Global Customer Digital Hub” was created in 2019  processes and the back-end and front-end systems, such 
starting from customer-focused activities managed by Coun- as the development of global products, thus constructing 
try/regional units, in order to maximize the digital impact  the operating model around products and services rather 
and promote synergies generated by the integration of the  than around local markets. Finally, Enel X is a business 
competences of the IT platforms and teams from different  platform by design model, in which innovative products 
countries. This has guaranteed consistency and uniformity  and services are developed and supplied to customers all 
among projects and initiatives in different countries, efficien- over the world. This constitutes an enormous opportunity 
cy of costs through centralised sourcing, and faster time-to- to create new markets.
Innovation and digitalization 133