PC Power Management - Italy In 2019, electricity consumption outside normal working 
hours2 continued to be monitored. This is related to the IT 
workstations (desktops, laptops, monitors) of Enel people 
Millions of hours downtime working in Italy. This measurement is possible thanks to 
a Microsoft3 feature available on the workstations, which 
2017 36
made it possible to identify when they were turned on and 
not used. Following the analysis, speciﬁc awareness actions 
2018 38 were deﬁned aimed at mitigating electricity consumption. 
While showing an increase in hours of inactivity, the new IT 
tools made available to Enel people have enabled a reduc-
2019 32
tion in emissions.
[data source: Blue Jeans]
tCO produced
2
2017 439.8
2 Monday-Friday (from 7pm to 7am); Saturday and Sunday. The monitoring 
excluded servers and personal computers that must always remain on (for 
example, GESI application, Enel Points, Power Exchange, etc.). Speciﬁcally, 
2018 330.4 the indicator represents the amount of CO associated with the electricity 
2
consumption of desktops, laptops and monitors, to which the average CO 
2
emission value is then applied per unit of electricity produced (gCO/kWh) 
2
2019 322.1 relative to the mix of sources in Italy.
3 System Center Conﬁguration Manager.
Cyber security
Digitalization opens new opportunities but also throws down  curity issues, defining strategies, policies and guidelines in 
new challenges in the security field. In the electrical sector  compliance with national and international legislation, and 
in particular, service continuity is of critical importance, mak- monitoring Group cyber security by means of process-based 
ing it essential to be able to withstand cyber attacks. Indeed,  and technical checks. 
a large-scale power outage could impact private citizens,  The unit operates in synergy with the Business Lines and 
businesses, institutions and essential services. Enel has  with the technical units responsible for design and manage-
adopted a systemic model that makes it possible to increase  ment of the systems, thanks to the “Cyber Security Risk 
prevention and the ability to respond to possible attacks for  Managers” and “Cyber Security Response Managers”. The 
all of its assets.  CISO and Cyber Security Risk Managers also set up the 
“Cyber Risk Working Committee” with the aim of evaluat-
Policies and management 
ing IT risks horizontally in order to consolidate the approach 
model
to risk treatment and achieve the Group’s risk posture. The 
“Cyber Security Risks Committee”, chaired by Enel’s 
In September 2016, the “Cyber Security” unit, headed by  Chief Executive Officer and composed of his main front 
the Group Chief Information Security Officer (CISO), was set  lines, approves the cyber security strategy and periodically 
up within the Global Digital, reporting directly to the Chief  checks the progress of its implementation. Each Group area 
Information Officer (CIO). The unit is engaged in guaran- department participates actively in implementing the cyber 
teeing the operation, management, and control of cyber se- security strategy by means of an integrated operating plan 
136 Sustainability Report 2019