s
ar
pill
ur 
O
aligned with the Group’s objectives. The cyber security strat- fied in accordance with a specific evaluation matrix (Enel Cy-
egy and initiatives are recurring topics that are subject to the  ber Impact Matrix) on a scale from 0 to 4 that considers both 
Group’s principal executive and control bodies (e.g. “Board  the level of their impact and the level of the existing tools 
of Directors”, “Control and Risks Committee”, “Supervisory  protecting company assets. The majority of incidents identi-
Bodies”, etc.). fied had no significant impact on Group systems and were 
In 2017 the Company also set up a specific “Cyber Security  automatically or semi-automatically blocked and/or managed 
Framework” policy, which orients principles, organisation  by existing company defences (level 0/1). Incidents classified  ss
ee
nn
and operating processes for a global strategy of analysis,  at levels 2/3/4 potentially have an impact on the Group and  bobo
kk
cc
prevention and management of the risks and effects of cy- they are managed by the CERT analysts, bringing in the ap- baba
G G 
ber attacks. This framework is based on a “systemic” vision  propriate units in question in accordance with processes and  SS
EE
that integrates traditional Information Technology sector (IT)  actors that are predetermined during the monitoring service 
with the Operational Technology sector (OT), connected to  set-up phase. In 2019 CERT responded to 94 level “2” cyber 
the world of industry and the Internet of Things (IoT). In the  security incidents and 10 level “3” incidents. In all cases 
context of the creation of this framework, 2017 saw the  detected, all the procedures provided were activated and no 
definition also of the new Cyber Security Risk Management  significant damage ensued in respect of company assets. No 
methodology applicable to all IT, OT and IoT environments,  level “4” cyber security incidents were recorded. 
which specifies all the necessary phases required to perform  If a cyber security incident were to involve a possible data 
e
a risk analysis and define the associated mitigation plan, in  violation, the appropriate and necessary actions would be un- ot
n
line with the stated cyber security objectives. Enel has also  dertaken immediately, in line with the specific Group policy  cal 
gi
o
created a “Cyber Emergency Readiness Team” (CERT)  on “Personal Data Management”. If a crisis situation should  ol
d
o
for proactive management and response to cyber incidents  arise such that threatens business continuity of the Company,  h
et
M
while collaborating and exchanging information within a net- and/or the assets, reputation, and/or profitability of the Enel 
work of accredited international partners. The existing ac- Group, the appropriate and necessary actions would be un-
creditation agreements with the institutional CERTs in the  dertaken immediately, in line with the specific Group policy 
countries in which Enel operates were upgraded in 2019.  concerning “Critical Events Management”.
Following signing of the agreement with the US national 
CERT, the number of accreditations has now reached 9: Ro- CERT allowed Enel to block the following daily threats 
mania, Italy, Chile, Argentina, Peru, Colombia, Brazil, Spain  in 2019:
x
di
and the US. Also in 2019 the collaboration proceeds with  >  approximately 2 million inbound malicious or spam emails; n
e
p
the Trusted Introducer Service, which includes more than  >  approximately 300 viruses; Ap
& 
380 CERTs in over 60 countries, and with “FIRST” (Forum  >  approximately 400 thousand at risk connections in  d 
n
o
of Incident Response and Security Teams), the largest and  outbound emails; n B
e
most wide ranging community in the sector, with over 510  >  approximately 120 attacks on institutional portals.  Gre
members in more than 90 countries. Finally, the Enel CERT  The number of connections to dangerous sites in 2019 fell 
Global Control room in Turin was upgraded in 2019: another  thanks to the extension of the technical countermeasures 
step forward in the consolidation and reinforcement of the  adopted and the increase in the level of protection of Inter-
Group’s cyber security strategy. net navigation, in relation to the extension of the perimeter 
of countries covered. 
Moreover, by means of Threat Intelligence services, in 2019 
Cyber security  Enel detected more than 1,300 Internet domains engaged 
in illicit use of the trade mark for the probable purpose of 
incident management
perpetrating fraud against customers, and reported them to 
the competent authorities. 
Every day, CERT collects more than 2 billion events from  Furthermore, more than 800 safety checks were carried out 
more than 3,700 data sources related to the corporate assets,  in the sphere of IT and OT, this number representing an in-
correlating them and producing around one hundred “inci- crease of 60% versus the checks carried out in 2018. 
dents” (cases requiring treatment). The incidents are classi- Finally, since complete migration to the IaaS cloud was ac-
Innovation and digitalization 137