complished in 2019 for the entire perimeter of Enel applica-
tions, the number of “Internet web applications protect-
ed by means of advanced cyber security solutions” has 
now reached 100%.  
Main collaborations with ex-
ternal bodies and agencies
In line with SDGs 9 and 17, Enel numbers activities in the 
area of digitalization and innovation within activities for the 
promotion of global partnerships with external bodies and 
authorities,  including  private  organisations,  institutions, 
academies and universities. In line with the Open Power 
approach, this method makes it possible to share best prac-
tices, develop channels for sharing information and create  Training  
new standards and regulations in which Enel makes its ex-
and information
perience available to increase the security of the ecosystem. 
Active participations proceeded in 2019 with several work 
groups for the definition of cyber security regulations and  The Company pressed ahead with its commitment to dis-
standards in the electricity industry, notably in the context  seminating the “cyber security culture” in 2019, staging 
of the “International Electrotechnical Commission TC57/ 16 cyber security knowledge sharing events.
WG15 - Data and Communication Security” and the “IEC  After the first plan launched at the end of 2015, the Cy-
Technical Committee 57”. ber Security Awareness Program has now become a 
There were also several collaborations with institutional  constant and ongoing initiative at Group level, aimed at 
partners and participations in high-profile national and inter- creating a culture of cyber security to increase awareness 
national symposia in 2019, with the aim of maintaining an  of threats and attacks exploiting the human vector.
active role in the industry’s international community, sharing  In this context, the Company proceeded with the “Hack-
the Enel cyber security model and the approach employed.  ers love data. Save it.” cyber security awareness cam-
In this context, Enel took part as a founder member in “The  paign started in 2017 and addressed to everyone in the 
National Observatory for Cyber Security, Resilience and  Group; in the second half of 2019 two waves were ded-
Business Continuity of Electrical Grids”, a group of experts  icated to “Spear Phishing” and “Social Engineering” at-
that acts as a focal point for innovation and research initia- tack methods.
tives on critical electrical infrastructure.  Furthermore, 16 cyber security knowledge sharing events 
Enel takes part in the World Economic Forum work groups  were organised at Group level in 2019 and also a con-
and, in 2019, contributed to drafting the paper entitled “Cy- tinuous and widespread information activity was carried 
ber Resilience in the Electricity Ecosystem: Principles and  out concerning the main cyber threats (as occurred, for 
Guidance for Boards”, which aims to provide the Boards of  example, in May 2019 after one of the world’s main in-
Directors of companies in the electricity sector with a series  stant messaging systems was hacked), by means of ap-
of general and cross-platform principles for governance in re- propriate communications to all Group employees, carried 
lation to cyber resilience of the electricity sector ecosystem.  out primarily via the intranet. The Group intranet not only 
Furthermore, the Group played an active role in the Conseil  disseminates news concerning cyber security matters 
de Cooperation Economique task force for cyber security in  rapidly, but also provides access to all the relevant organ-
the energy sector, in order to provide information and rec- isational documents and technical guidelines.
ommendations concerning cyber security, of use for Euro-
pean Commission initiatives.
138 Sustainability Report 2019