Sustainability governance
ability policy; monitors Enel’s ranking  of  the  Committee  for  Corporate  located in the various countries and 
in the main sustainability ratings; ex- Governance and Sustainability, per- Business Lines. Each country or re-
amines the layout of the Sustainability  forms a proactive role in the pro- gion identifies the requirements of lo-
Report and articulation of the related  cess of approval and supervision of  cal stakeholders, defining the sustain-
contents, and also completeness and  the sustainability strategy. ability strategy accordingly, adapting 
transparency of the disclosures sup- >	 The  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  Group guidelines to match the needs 
plied by the documents in question;  General Manager is responsible for  of the local area. In the framework of 
examines the main company proce- defining and implementing a sustain- the Holding Innovability Function, the 
dures rules and procedures of signif- able  business  model,  defining  the  Sustainability  Planning  and  Perfor-
icance in relation to stakeholders. guidelines  for  management  of  the  mance Management unit, responsible 
>	 Among other aspects, responsibilities  energy transition, promoting zero-car- for managing the sustainability plan-
of the Control and Risks Committee  bon emission energy generation and  ning, monitoring and reporting pro-
include examining Sustainability Report  corporate practices that award con- cesses, and for the management of 
contents of significance in relation to  sideration to the needs of the various  ESG ratings and sustainability indices, 
the Internal Control and Risk Manage- stakeholders. also reports to the Group CFO in order 
ment System, and the main corporate  >  The Innovability Function (Innova- to guarantee ever greater integration 
rules and procedures linked to the In- tion and Sustainability), which re- of these issues in corporate strategies 
ternal Control and Risk Management  ports directly to the Chief Executive  and reporting.
System and having a significant impact  Officer, manages all activities from  >	 The global Business Lines, coun-
in relation to stakeholders. the perspective of sustainability and  tries, global service Functions and 
>	 By coordinating the activities of the  innovation. The Holding units respon- Holding Functions incorporate ESG 
Board of Directors, the Chairman of  sible for Enel SpA’s operations play a  factors in their decision and operation-
the Board of Directors, who currently  role of guidance and coordination for  al processes to generate sustainable 
Integration of environmental, social and governance  also occupies the post of Chairman  the Sustainability and Innovation units  value in the long term. 
factors (#ESG) in company management
1 2 3
SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT MATERIALITY ANALYSIS SUSTAINABILITY PLAN
Analysis of ESG trends and main risks. Identification of the priority issues  Definition of ESG objectives, in line 
for the Group and for stakeholders. with the UN SDGs, to promote a 
sustainable business model 
ESG RATING AND  ESG RATING AND 
throughout the entire value chain.
SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY 
INDICES INDICES
Assessment of  Assessment of 
Enel’s ESG  Enel’s ESG 
5 4
performance. performance.
REPORTING ACTIONS
Reporting and communication of  Daily commitment to create sustainable 
ESG performance, in line with the  value for all stakeholders, thinking 
reference standards. globally and acting locally.
A T   A   G L A N C E 13