s
ar
pill
ur 
O
Safety in contract processes
Safety is integrated in tender processes and the performance  out in 2019 in the various countries and Business Lines. 
of companies is monitored both on a preliminary level, by  One area of action, already started in 2018 but greatly de- s
e
n
means of the qualiﬁcation system, and during contract exe- veloped in 2019, concerns the creation of a “Safety Partner- o
b
k
cution through a large number of control processes and tools  ship” with vendors having the following basic stages: ac
b
G 
such as the Supplier Performance Management tool (SPM).  >  deﬁnition of a safety rating to measure companies’  S
E
A speciﬁc “HSE Terms” document has been prepared and  management and operational performance. The perfor-
attached to all contracts since March 2019; the document  mance parameters considered include the Contractors 
in question must be signed by contractors when the works  Safety Index (CSI), an indicator based not only on detec-
are awarded. The document, which is the same throughout  tion of non-conformity in the ﬁeld and ranking of the re-
the entire Group, deﬁnes the obligations in relation to health,  lated severity, but also on the number and seriousness 
safety and environmental aspects that the contractor must  of accidents. This indicator makes it possible to detect 
respect, placing the same obligation on its subcontractors.  faint signals and operational criticalities of contractors so 
e
Any violation of the contractual conditions in question will  prevention can be selectively focused on the most crit- ot
n
produce speciﬁc penalties up to termination of the contract  ical companies in order to take increasingly responsive  cal 
gi
and/or suspension of qualiﬁcation. actions to prevent accidents before they happen; olo
d
Signiﬁcant impetus has also been given during the year to  >  the adoption of targeted actions with personalised ac- ho
et
“Safety Supplier Assessments”, which consist in the execution  companiment plans for companies in order to reach the  M
of speciﬁc checks concerning safety issues, conducted in the  required standards.
vendor’s headquarters and on its job sites. The assessments  In critical cases, Enel creates hybrid work teams with the com-
are carried out during the qualiﬁcation phase for each new ven- panies to carry out joint analysis of gaps to be ﬁlled, deﬁne tan-
dor, or in cases in which criticalities emerge (severe or fatal inju- gible actions to raise safety standards, and then track the imple-
ries) or low SMP rating scores. 746 assessments were carried  mentation phase and effectiveness of the measures adopted.
x
di
n
e
p
p
A
Infrastructure safety  & 
d 
n
o
B
n 
and technological innovation e
e
Gr
Enel views technological innovation as a valid tool capable of  in progress, have been adopted in the Infrastructure and Net-
improving a large number of processes from the H&S per- works area. Promoted initiatives include an app that uses 
spective. Several innovation projects on safety proceeded  uploaded conﬁrmation photos to guarantee that all activities 
and various new projects were launched in 2019 in order to  calling for preparatory electrical disconnection of live parts 
improve processes, starting from personnel training, con- have been carried out in full compliance with the globally 
tinuing with the implementation of preventive and protec- adopted rules to ensure complete safety. 
tive measures, up to the execution and analysis of corrective  2019 also saw the experimentation of the sober-eye service, 
checks.  which consists in monitoring the physical condition of work-
Personal voltage detectors, i.e. portable devices designed  ers – in real time and by means of an app – by analysing the 
to identify electrical voltage on low- and medium-voltage  pupil and its response to light stimuli (speciﬁcally, by record-
power lines located at operationally signiﬁcant distances  ing changes in the pupillary light reﬂex). 
from the worker but not necessarily involved in the activity 
Occupational health and safety 147