s
ar
pill
ur 
O
standards of companies working with Enel. 100%
Speciﬁc actions have been carried out in the framework of 
the project, including the “SHE 2.019 leadership program”,  of personnel of contractors destined to work for Enel who 
which led to the selection and training of a community of  have received training and information on health and safety 
safety inﬂuencers to facilitate the dissemination of safety  from their employer
values throughout all organisational areas, and “Inspector 
2.0”, aimed at developing the technical and relational skills of  861 es
About  thousand  n
o
inspectors and supervisors in the ﬁeld, to strengthen coach- b
k
c
ing actions towards internal people and companies that work  hours ba
G 
S
with Enel.  E
of training and information addressed to personnel of contractors1
Communications on the global level in relation to health and 
safety were focused on topics concerning personal health 
1 The value includes also training and information courses supplied by Enel 
and the most common pathologies.
people to allow contractors to access the Group’s job sites and/or facilities.
Safety of communities and third parties
e
ot
n
al 
c
gi
o
ol
d
o
h
et
M
Enel’s installed plants are built in compliance with legislative 
prescriptions and the rules of best technical practice. Plants, 
machines and work equipment are subject to systematic 
and periodic checks and maintenance activities to guarantee 
correct operation in compliance with regulations and in ac-
cordance with the adoption of the best standards. 
In order to guarantee health and safety of the community 
x
di
and reduce the impact of the typical activities of the com- n
e
p
pany’s generation process on the external environment, the  Ap
& 
Company carries out monitoring campaigns such as mea- d 
n
o
surement of the electromagnetic ﬁelds of power networks,  n B
e
noise levels, vibration and dust created by the electrical  Gre
machines of power plants and distribution and transformer 
substations. Also the following environmentally signiﬁcant 
factors are monitored: atmospheric emissions and air quali-
ty, efﬂuent discharge into surface waters, water quality, pro-
duction, reuse and disposal of wastes, soil quality, biodiver-
sity impacts.
Considerable  attention  has  been  devoted  to  preventing 
harmful events involving members of the public who acci-
dentally come into contact with electricity networks due to 
activities such as job sites near transmission lines or sports 
and leisure pursuits (ﬁshing, ﬂying kites, etc.). A large num-
ber of awareness campaigns have been conducted, ad-
dressed both to the general public and to speciﬁc categories 
(construction companies, sports associations, etc.).
Occupational health and safety 149