Emergencies management
DMA EU (former EU21)
Enel has a common crisis and critical events management  and promoting sharing of best practices. Also, a travel safety 
system across the various countries in which the Group is  process has been set up in order to protect Enel people trav-
present. This global management system involves evaluation  elling in different countries, supplying information and com-
of the impact caused by critical events by means of a stan- munications on destination countries, indicating conditions 
dard reference scale with three levels. High-impact crises  that can constitute health and safety risks of travellers (e.g. 
are managed centrally, while medium- or low-impact crisis  political turmoil, terror attacks, crime, health threats, etc.), 
situations are managed within the speciﬁc organisation in  the guidelines and conduct to follow, and activation of the 
the individual countries. necessary safety measures with regard to the level of risk 
High-impact crises (“Group Red Code”) are addressed by  identiﬁed for the destination country.
creating a central crisis committee in the Security Control  Further to the new Coronavirus epidemic (Covid-19) in Chi-
Room at the Viale Regina Margherita headquarters in Rome,  na towards the end of January and the subsequent spread 
supplying support 24/7 for communication and coordination  of contagion in other parts of the world, Enel promptly im-
of information ﬂows. plemented a raft of different actions in all the Group’s geo-
Moreover, the crisis committee deﬁnes strategies and ac- graphical areas in order to minimise the risk of contagion and 
tions to deal with critical events and coordinates all actions  guarantee electricity supplies at the same time. The Com-
designed to restrict damage to the Enel Group’s property,  pany also set up a Global Task Force and speciﬁc Local Task 
proﬁtability and reputation. Forces, constituted by the Health, Safety, Environment and 
Enel SpA has a Security unit in the Holding’s People and Or- Quality, Security and Real Time Communications units. In all 
ganization Function, aimed at deﬁning strategies and guide- the countries, the Local Task Force coordinates the pertinent 
lines on matters of security, reporting to top management  activities and establishes the necessary actions. 
Nuclear policy
In the context of its operations in the ﬁeld of nuclear tech-
nologies, Enel has made a public commitment, in the role of 
shareholder, to guarantee that a clear nuclear safety policy 
is adopted in its atomic energy plants and that the plants 
are managed in accordance with criteria capable of assuring 
the absolute priority of safety and protection of workers, the 
community and the environment. Further details are avail-
able on the Enel website (https://www.enel.com/investors/
sustainability-performance/enel-and-nuclear).  
150 Sustainability Report 2019