s
ar
pill
ur 
O
Industrial relations on health 
and safety issues
s
e
n
o
In order to consolidate the culture of safety and promote  place safety and protection policies in force since 2012. The  b
k
c
the adoption of behaviours that are consistent with compa- commission examines the main projects aimed at improving  ba
G 
ny policies, Enel supports social dialogue and participation  safety standards, training projects, and preventive initiatives.  ES
of workers’ representatives. Joint committees have been  In 2013, the Enel Global Framework Agreement created an 
set up for this purpose in the main countries in which Enel  analogous bilateral commission at the Group level, which 
is present, dedicated to monitoring the issues and projects  deﬁned a “joint recommendation” concerning health and 
concerning workers’ health and safety on the national level  safety standards applicable in all Enel countries. In 2019 ne-
and also in terms of Business Lines. In Italy, in implementa- gations were set in motion to renew the Enel Global Frame-
tion of the matters provided for by the national trade union  work Agreement to be signed in 2020. The following details 
agreement on the “Italian model of Enel Italia industrial  concern the commissions that operate in the main countries 
e
relations”, there has been a bilateral commission on work- on the national and/or local levels. not
al 
c
gi
o
ol
d
o
h
et
M
COUNTRY JOINT COMMITTEES FOR HEALTH AND SAFETY
Italy  Apart from the bilateral commission on safety policies and workplace protection set up in 2012, there are two commit-
tees working for Infrastructure and Networks and for Generation. Periodic meetings are also organised, involving the 
employer, the prevention and protection service manager, the medical ofﬁcer and the workers’ safety representatives. 
The meetings are held at least once a year. dix
n
e
Russia Each power plant in Russia has a health and safety committee. Each organisational unit has a workers representative  pp
A
for matters of occupational health and safety, for a total of 49 representatives, reporting to the company managers and  & 
trade unions. nd 
o
B
Romania In compliance with legislative provisions, there are safety and hygiene committees in each company, composed of:  en 
e
representatives of the company members, the specialised physician and professional representatives of the members  Gr
of trade unions/employee representatives, who meet periodically (every three months) to discuss speciﬁc problems 
and propose measures to manage, control and improve safety.
Spain The Comisión de participación y control has been set up on the national level, while the local level is handled by Comités 
de seguridad y salud territoriales.
Argentina The power plants have bilateral committees responsible for health and hygiene issues, which meet once a month or 
once every two months.
Chile  All generation centres with more than 25 staff have Comités paritarios de higiene y seguridad, which make decisions 
concerning occupational health and safety initiatives by means of an annual operating plan. These committees meet 
once a month.
Peru   There are ﬁve bilateral committees that also involve the participation of contractor representatives.
Brazil All sites have a Comissão interna de prevenção de acidentes, composed of company representatives and workers’ 
representatives; attention is focused on setting up accident prevention initiatives.
Colombia Two joint committees have been set up (COPASST), one for networks and one for generation, with the role of promoting 
the application of occupational medicine legislation.
Occupational health and safety 151