s
ar
pill
ur 
O
s
e
n
o
b
k
c
a
b
G 
S
E
Services and fairness. Every procurement procedure is aimed at guar-
anteeing the principles of free competition, equal treatment, 
2017 5,692
non-discrimination, transparency, proportionality, rotation, and 
public access. Moreover, the economic principle may be sub-
2018 4,141 ject to criteria laid down by the tender, inspired by social de-
mands, as well as protecting health and the environment and 
e
2019 5,428 promoting sustainable development and social stability.  ot
n
In terms of environmental sustainability and reducing paper  cal 
gi
usage, the Group is promoting digital processes with its sup- olo
d
o
pliers for qualiﬁcation/registration, tender management and  h
et
M
Enel manages relations with its suppliers in a fair, trans- issuing contracts.
parent and collaborative way, promoting long-term partner-
ships. A global strategy with the aim of maximising value 
creation in its various forms (security, savings, time, quality,  Supplier management 
performance, revenue, ﬂexibility, risk reduction) and improv-
and assessment processes
ing stakeholders’ end-to-end experience. The transformation 
that has been ongoing in recent years is based on: 
x
di
>  expanding the professionalism of buyers through us- n
103-2 103-3 ;  pe
p
er-friendly technologies and by recognising everyone’s  A
& 
contribution in a multicultural trust-based working envi- Enel carries out structured analyses and monitoring of the  d 
n
o
ronment driven by passion;  procurement process. In particular, it conducts a risk assess- n B
e
>  enhance integration and communication with internal  ment on 100% of the procurement merchandise categories.  Gre
customers, setting out together solutions to fulﬁl the  The main identiﬁed risks concern economic, environmental, 
business’ needs;  social and reputational aspects. 
>  involving suppliers from the moment the need comes  95% of Tier 1 suppliers (approximately 10,000 suppliers1) 
about, listening to their proposals and developing inno- were considered “critical suppliers” based on their strategic 
vative approaches together.  nature related to the business, purchase volumes and poten-
In 2019, Enel set out speciﬁc procedures to adopt new  tial economic, social and environmental impacts. 
methods such as “Design to Value”, which aims to establish  The Enel Group’s relations with its suppliers undergo basic 
innovative solutions in close collaboration with suppliers  steps to ensure that the best partners are selected and that 
with an approach that’s open to change, and “Should Cost”  contracts are executed to the highest sustainability stand-
to develop quantitative analyses and support negotiations  ards. 
between buyers and suppliers. 
Procurement processes are carried out in compliance with the 
applicable local laws, ensuring the quality of service in full com-
1 “Tier 1” suppliers are those with active contracts as of December 31, 2019 
pliance with the principles of economy, efﬁciency, timeliness  of more than 25 thousand euros.
Sustainable supply chain 157