risk classes – it requires speciﬁc certiﬁcates/self-declara- given an overall positive assessment. If, however, the result 
tions or on-site visits to verify fulﬁlment of the above require- is negative, the assessment request will be rejected and the 
ments. The company’s compliance with the requirements  contractor may not be called to take part in Group tenders. 
must be ensured for the duration of the qualiﬁcation and, as  The evaluation of individual sustainability requirements con-
such, companies already included in Enel’s Register of Qual- tributes to the overall assessment of the company’s suitabil-
iﬁed Suppliers are constantly monitored for events that may  ity to be placed on Enel’s Supplier Register. In the event that 
affect both the company itself and its main representatives,  a supplier is deemed non-eligible for the Enel Register as a 
including through the use of external databases.  result of a negative assessment on one or more sustainabil-
The qualiﬁcation system serves as:  ity requirements, the supplier may make a new assessment 
>  a guarantee for Enel, as it provides an updated list of  request at a later time.
entities with proven reliability (in legal, ﬁnancial, tech- In 2019, 100% of qualiﬁed suppliers were assessed accord-
nical and organisational, ethical, health and safety, and  ing to social, environmental and safety criteria2. The number 
environmental aspects) which it can draw upon;  of qualiﬁed suppliers with a contract still active at the end of 
>  an opportunity for suppliers to be called to participate in  2019 is approximately 3,100 (around 28% of active suppliers 
the procurement procedures announced by the Group’s  as of December 31), while the total number of active qual-
companies, in accordance with the relevant rules.  iﬁed companies is approximately 8,200. The following table 
There are three main areas of analysis: shows the trend of qualiﬁed suppliers as a percentage for 
>  Health and Safety: the “Safety Self-Assessment” allows  the three aspects analysed by process.
Enel to easily send to its suppliers the key requirements 
to grow together, and in July 2018 it became an inte-
gral part of the sustainability requirements for assessing 
MCs with a Health and Safety risk;
>  Environment: environmental assessment criteria vary 
depending on the merchandise category and level of 
risk associated with each MC on a scale from 1 to 3. 
For MCs considered to have a high environmental risk, 
the ISO 14001 certiﬁcation or equivalent is always re-
quired. Moreover, for these merchandise categories, an 
on-site audit at the contractor’s premises/sites is always 
required. As part of the qualiﬁcation process, Enel has 
introduced a speciﬁc assessment of environmental re-
quirements, in addition to the usual checks, for suppliers 
to be placed on the Supplier Register;
>  Human Rights: taking a prudential approach, Enel as-
sesses suppliers in relation to human rights, regardless 
of the level of risk, through a dedicated questionnaire 
which analyses the characteristics of potential suppliers 
in terms of inclusion and diversity, protection of work-
ers’ privacy, veriﬁcation of their supply chain, forced or 
child labour, freedom of association and collective bar-
gaining and fair working conditions (including fair wag-
es and hours worked). In 2019, the questionnaire was 
integrated with further veriﬁcation questions for a more 
accurate assessment of the potential supplier.
2 Only contracts with a value of more than 25 thousand euros (so-called de-
Individual suppliers can only be placed on the Supplier Reg- legated purchases; excluding Sanpaolo, Edesur and part of Romania). The 
total of new suppliers that did not have a contract in 2018 equalled 3,748 
ister (or remain on it if previously qualiﬁed) and be invited 
(4,668 in 2018 that did not have a contract in 2017), of which 27% were 
to participate in the Group’s procurement procedures if it is  qualified (17% in 2018).
160 Sustainability Report 2019