s
ar
pill
ur 
O
Supplier Performance  Monitoring systems
Management
In each stage of the procurement process, there are spe-
Enel assesses and monitors the performance of its suppli- cific committees made up of representatives both of the 
ers – both during the procurement process and execution of  purchasing department and Business Lines, with the task of 
contracts – through the Supplier Performance Management  assessing and monitoring supplier performance. In particu- s
e
n
(SPM) process. This aims not only to take restructuring ac- lar, the following committees have been set up: o
b
k
tions, where necessary, but also to encourage suppliers  1   Qualification committee;  ac
b
G 
to improve by incentivising best practices through reward  2   Integrity committee: this includes representatives from  S
E
schemes.  Global Procurement, the Legal Function and Security 
The Supplier Performance Management process is regulat- Function. It meets every time a critical issue arises, such 
ed by a dedicated procedure and based on an objective and  as an investigation or proceedings relating to breaches 
systematic disclosure of data and information on the execu- by a supplier, and periodically (usually monthly) to share 
tion of the work defined by the contract. This data is used  and analyse situations which require specific actions/
to develop specific indicators, also called Categories (Qual- sanctions to be applied to supplier companies. 
ity, Punctuality, Health and Safety, Environment, Human  Moreover, individual country-specific units (“Contract Con-
e
Rights and Fairness and Innovation & Collaboration), which  trols Area”) have been set up to carry out checks on the  ot
n
are combined to form a weighted average and produce the  responsible management of the supply chain and assess  al 
c
gi
Supplier Performance Index (SPI). The categories and SPI  and manage risks relating to joint and several liability (appli- olo
d
can be used as assessment elements for participation in  cable to successful tenderers and any subcontractors). The  ho
et
tenders and for the continuation of contractual relationship  checks include an initial mass document analysis to assess  M
in accordance with the applicable local requirements. Moni- the correct contribution and proper fulfilment of suppliers’ 
toring activities are conducted by the various Business Lines  contractual obligations. Next, there is a second level check 
with the support of the relevant HSE units, where applica- on a sample of tenders to carry out targeted and thorough 
ble, and the Qualification & Vendor Rating unit. In addition,  checks with on-site inspections.
all individuals who interact with suppliers have the opportu-
nity to express their own assessment through the dedicated 
Training and information dix
“Track & Rate” app. n
e
p
For suppliers with poor performance, Enel adopts solutions  Ap
103-2 103-3 & 
that can have an impact on:  d 
n
o
>  the qualification system (for example, suspending the  In recent years, Enel has held several meetings with contrac- B
n 
e
qualification, reviewing the application class, placement  tors on sustainability issues to exchange different ideas and  e
Gr
on the blacklist, exclusion from the list of qualified sup- approaches. At individual country level, numerous meetings 
pliers, etc.); and/or  have been held more regularly in the last two years with con-
>  the  contract  (for  example,  further  investigation,  im- tractors to discuss sustainability issues (Suppliers Days held 
provement plan, contract termination, reduction in vol- in Italy, Peru, Colombia, Spain, Romania and Brazil). More-
umes, option not required, etc.).  over, on the Global Procurement website, articles are peri-
In the event of critical issues in the conduct of a supplier, an  odically published showing Group’s commitment to these 
action plan may be drawn up jointly, the execution of which  issues (https://globalprocurement.enel.com).
is constantly monitored by Enel. Again in relation to protection and awareness, particularly in 
Through the SPM process, 450 MCs and 2,282 contractors  terms of health and safety, Enel has undertaken numerous 
were monitored last year (versus 398 MCs and around 2,423  initiatives to engage contractors. There has been a signifi-
contractors in 2018). cant decrease in accidents at work in recent years thanks to 
these initiatives. 
Sustainable supply chain 163