s
ar
pill
ur 
O
s
e
n
o
b
k
c
a
b
G 
S
E
e
ot
n
al 
c
gi
o
ol
d
o
h
et
M
Bettercoal site assessments carried out by independent third parties 
to verify that the code’s principles have been applied, and 
agreeing on an ongoing improvement plan to overcome any 
103-2 103-3
shortcomings.
x
di
Together with major European electric utilities, Enel is ac- In addition to Bettercoal’s growing presence in various fo- en
p
tively engaged in Bettercoal – a global initiative to promote  rums in the area of coal sustainability and supply chain, the  Ap
& 
the continuous improvement of corporate responsibility in  initiative has become an example of collaboration geared  d 
n
o
the international coal industry. Bettercoal has released a  towards improving socially responsible practices in the  n B
e
code of conduct based on existing and agreed standards of  supply chain. In 2019, Bettercoal evaluations covered over  Gre
social responsibility in the mining sector. This details guide- 400 mil t of coal production. Further reinforcement was giv-
lines which mining companies can refer to when drawing  en to two working groups dedicated specifically to Russia 
up their own social, environmental and ethical policies. The  and Colombia with clear and transparent work plans. In-
Bettercoal code tells suppliers what members expect from  spections in four sites located in the USA, Colombia and 
their practices in relation to four main categories: manage- Kazakhstan were also carried out, with active monitoring 
ment; commitment to ethics and transparency; human  of 11 improvement plans. To promote greater transparen-
and labour rights; and environmental performance, while  cy, four reports were published on the completed on-site 
promoting ongoing improvement. In 2019, it has started to  assessments, which are available to the public on the Bet-
review the code to align it with the latest best practices in  tercoal website. Lastly, the United Nations Global Compact 
sustainability, while gathering ideas and feedback from all  Communication of Engagement and annual report with the 
relevant stakeholders. help of an external NGO were also published.
After signing a letter of commitment, the mining compa-
nies in the programme embarked on a virtuous path repre- For further information, please refer to the website: www.
sented by the assurance system, accepting to undergo on- bettercoal.org.
Sustainable supply chain 165