Materiality analysis
 
102-15 102-40 102-44 The methodology employed was devel- italization and the spread of new 
102-47 103-1 oped taking into account the guidelines  technologies  are  accelerating  the 
of several international standards, includ- transformation  of  a  large  number 
Sustainability Report ing the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI),  of sectors. This context offers new 
Methodological note
SASB (Sustainability Accounting Stand- opportunities based on the devel-
The  analysis  of  priorities  (“materiality  ards Board), standard AA1000APS and  opment  of  energy  solutions  that 
analysis”) makes it possible to identify  the SDG Compass, which supports com- promote sustainability and make it 
and assess material issues for stakehold- panies in adapting their strategies to com- possible to diversity the offering of 
ers, weighted on the basis of their rele- ply with the UN Sustainable Development  the products and services the Group 
vance, correlating them with the Group’s  Goals (SDGs). Specifically, the issues sub- proposes to its customers, both in-
priorities and with the business strate- ject to analysis cover all 17 SDGs.  fluencing  the  traditional  business 
gy, considering impacts generated and  The issues, classified in categories of  and promoting the creation of new 
suffered, in order to check their “align- business and governance issues, social  models.  Innovation  of  products, 
ment” (or “misalignment”) and identify  issues and environmental issues, were  services or processes is a strategic 
areas of possible improvement.  assessed in 2019 based on the priorities  priority that guarantees the Compa-
The result of this analysis is shown in  assigned by stakeholders (horizontal axis  ny’s long-term success against the 
the priorities matrix (or materiality ma- of the matrix) and by the Company (verti- background of an increasingly com-
trix) and it supports the identification and  cal axis of the matrix). The overall Group  petitive and demanding market. In 
definition of issues for preparation of the  matrix considers the contributions of the  this context, the Group has includ-
Sustainability Report and the objectives  main companies involved in the process,  ed clear and precise objectives in 
to include in the Strategic Plan and in the  based on their relevance with respect to  its  2020-2022  Sustainability  Plan, 
Sustainability Plan, the accomplishment  the type of business in which they op- aimed  at  defining  and  developing 
of which is guaranteed by contributions  erate. Below, some of the main material  new products and services, promot-
from the various Group Functions and  issues are shown, highlighting their relat- ing the application of new technol-
Business Lines. The materiality analysis  ed motivations and main impacts.  ogies in the sphere of energy effi-
is brought to the attention of the Corpo- >  Occupational health and safety –  ciency, electric mobility, storage and 
rate Governance and Sustainability Com- Enel considers people’s health, safe- other sustainable energy solutions. 
mittee at the time of the Sustainability  ty  and  psychological  and  physical  >  Sound governance and fair cor-
Plan guidelines review. Moreover, the  well-being one of the main priorities  porate conduct – Enel has estab-
Corporate Governance and Sustainabili- of the Group. Optimal management  lished a system of rules, models and 
ty Committee and the Control and Risks  of this issue contributes to generate  control mechanisms inspired by the 
Committee  issue  preventive  opinions  trust and boost the commitment of  highest standards of transparency 
concerning  the  Sustainability  Report,  people in relation to the Group and  and fairness in management of the 
which includes the materiality analysis,  the work they perform, also helping  business, both internally and exter-
and submit them to the Board of Direc- to improve performance, raise pro- nally.  This  model  generates  trust 
tors in its meeting convened to approve  ductivity and reduce labour cost. In  among stakeholders, an aspect that 
the Report. confirmation of the constant com- is reflected also in the economic re-
The process allows to identify not only  mitment assumed by Enel in relation  sults and in positioning in the prin-
the priorities for the entire Group, but  to safety, the total combined injury  cipal ESG ratings and sustainability 
also for single countries, down to the  Frequency Rate (FR) in 2019 for Enel  indices. 
level of detail of Business Line/Business  people and contractors was down 
Function and individual assets (meaning  by 18% compared to 2018.
potential or actual operating sites).  >  Ecosystems and platforms – Dig-
16 Sustainability Report 2019