s
ar
pill
ur 
O
c. Reduction in grid losses associated with electrici- b. Communication with analysts and participation 
ty distribution.  in various sustainability indexes. -
d. Efﬁcient management of water resources for  c. Consultation and engagement with local stakeholders.
Protecting the environment and natural resources, combating climate change, and striving to achieve 
industrial uses, focusing in particular on “water  d. Dissemination of environmental initiatives through 
sustainable economic development are all strategic factors in planning, carrying out, and developing 
stress” areas. the Internet.
Enel’s activities, and are decisive in consolidating its leadership in energy markets.
e. Value the by-products of electricity generation as  Chapter: “Environmental sustainability” – “Commitment 
Since 1996, Enel has observed a Group environmental policy which is based on four key pillars:
raw materials for other production processes. to the ﬁght against climate change” – “Communities and 
s
e
1. protecting the environment by preventing impacts to it;  f. Promotion of services and products for energy  value sharing” on
b
k
2. improving and promoting the environmental sustainability of products and services;  efﬁciency in the end-uses. ac
b
3. creating shared value for the Company and stakeholders;  Chapter: “Environmental sustainability” – “Commitment  8.Employee  training  and  awareness-raising  on  SG 
environmental issues.  E
4. complying with legal obligations and voluntary commitments, promoting ambitious environmental  to the ﬁght against climate change”
management practices.
5.Optimal management of waste and wastewater  a. Training on environmental issues.
It also pursues ten strategic objectives: and promotion of circular economy initiatives.  b.Employee engagement in campaigns to raise 
awareness about the environment.
1. Organization-wide application of interna- d.Internal  development  and  application  of  a. Reduction in waste production. Chapter: “Environmental sustainability” 
tionally recognized Environmental Mana- international best practices. b. Reduction of polluting effect of wastewater.
9.Promotion of sustainable environmental practi-
gement Systems based on the principle of Chapter: “Environmental sustainability” – “Commit- c. Increase in the percentage recovery of waste and  e
ces among suppliers, contractors and customers.  ot
continuous improvement and the adop- ment to the ﬁght against climate change” wastewater produced. al n
tion of environmental indicators to measu- d. Qualiﬁed selection of suppliers of waste disposal  gic
o
re the environmental performance of the 3. Siting  industrial  plants,  infrastructure  and  services and use of IT systems for the traceability of  a.Use of qualiﬁcation criteria for the selection of  dol
o
entire organization.  buildings, while safeguarding the territory and  waste.  suppliers based on environmental performance. eth
M
b.Training  initiatives  and  meetings  to  inform 
biodiversity.  Chapter: “Environmental sustainability”
a. Annual compliance of ISO 14001 certiﬁca- suppliers about the Enel expectations in terms of 
tions present and extension to cover the entire  a.Development and updating of an Action Plan  6.Development of innovative technologies for the  management of the environmental impacts due to 
Group perimeter.  for Biodiversity. environment.  activities to be undertaken, starting from the work 
b. Rationalization and harmonization of certiﬁca- b. Development of biodiversity protection projects,  start stage. 
tion in the various organizational areas; search  taking into account the speciﬁc features of local  a.Implementation of systems for increasing plant  c. Assessment of suppliers based on the environ-
for synergies and sharing of best practices with  environments  (conservation  of  the  habitats  of  efﬁciency and reducing emissions. mental  performance  achieved  during  the  x
di
regard to environmental management. protected  species,  reintroduction  of  particular  b. Promotion and development of smart grids as  activities carried out on behalf of Enel. en
p
p
Chapter: “Environmental sustainability”  species, replanting of native ﬂora, in collaboration  well as solutions based on the digital management  Chapter: “Environmental sustainability” – “Sustai- & A
with research centres and nature observatories). of  assets  designed  to  improve  environmental  nable supply chain” nd 
o
2.Reducing environmental impact by applying  c.Performance of bio-monitoring activities (land,  performances. n B
the  best  available  technologies  and  best  seas, rivers). c.  Development  of  innovative  solutions  for  10. Complying with legal obligations and volun- Gree
practices in the stages of plant construction,  tary commitments. 
d.Use of technologies to protect biodiversity. renewable energy production (photovoltaic, geother-
operation,  and  decommissioning,  taking 
e. Mitigation of the visual impact and of the  mal, wind, marine energy) including the integration 
into  consideration  a  life  cycle  analysis  a. Guarantee that operations are carried out in 
impact on the landscape of generation plants  of renewable energy and energy storage.
approach and the circular economy concept.   compliance with the legal obligations and the 
and distribution networks. d. Promotion and development of electric mobility.
commitments  undertaken  voluntarily,  in  the 
Chapter: “Environmental sustainability” Chapter: “Environmental sustainability” – “Infrastructure, 
a.Environmental impact assessment for the  various countries.
ecosystems and platforms”
construction of plants or signiﬁcant changes.  b. Resolve any cases of non-compliance with 
4. Leadership in renewables and in low-carbon 
b.Study  and  application  of  Best  Available  electricity  generation  and  efﬁcient  use  of  7. Communication on the Company’s environmental  regard to the obligations and voluntary commit-
Technologies (BAT).  energy, water resources, and raw materials.  results to citizens, institutions and other stakeholders.  ments undertaken.
c. Protection and monitoring of the quality of  c. Consider further action and voluntary conduct 
surface  water  and  groundwater  in  areas  a. Growth in renewable energy production.  a. Publication of the Sustainability Report and open-data  to protect the environment, even if not part of our 
around the plants.  b. Improvement of the efﬁciency of power plants.  access to the Group’s main environmental parameters. legal obligations.
Chapter: “Environmental sustainability”
Environmental sustainability 171