103-2 103-3
Sustainability Report Environmental 
At a Glance
Commitment to the fight against 
climate change
governance   
Performance indicators
Annual Report 
0.59  Strategic factors in the planning, implementation and development of Enel’s op-
g/kWh
erations include the protection of the environment and natural resources, com-
eq 
SO specific emissions bating climate change as well as contributing towards sustainable economic 
2
development. Moreover, these represent determining factors in consolidating 
the Company’s position as leader in the energy market. 
0.60
Since 1996, Enel has been pursuing a Group environmental policy, updated in 2018, 
 g/kWh
eq  and as stated in the opening of this chapter, this policy has been implemented 
NO specific emissions
x across the Company structure and across its entire value chain1.
Enel oversees all environmental-related activities by means of a structure that ex-
tends across the operational units with standardised general environmental policy 
0.12 
g/kWh guidelines, emanating from one central Holding unit. Across the Business Lines and 
eq Global Service Functions, structures, dedicated personnel and managers ensure the 
dust specific emissions
operational implementation of these common strategic guidelines. In particular, Staff 
Functions coordinate the management of relevant environmental issues, ensuring the 
0.33  necessary specialist support in line with the Holding guidelines, whilst the operational 
l/kWh  
units manage the speciﬁc aspects related to the various industrial sites.
eq
specific water requirement
Enel Data on Environment (EDEN)  
7.2    In 2019, Enel introduced an environmental reporting system called Enel Data on 
mil
Environment (EDEN). This is an advanced, easy-to-use, and robust tool that col-
tons of waste produced lects and manages environmental data whilst also supporting the management 
of environmental improvement strategies across the various divisions, in addi-
tion to collecting all the environmental data for the annual Sustainability Report 
114  of all the Group companies. 
EDEN is capable of recording over 1,750 environmental variables broken down 
projects for the protection  into thematic units (fuels, emissions, waste, water, soil, consumables, stock 
of biodiversity materials, operational data, environmental improvement interventions, etc.) cal-
culating speciﬁc KPIs in line with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative).
As well as a multi-lingual tool, it can input data for each individual technology, for 
different organisational levels (plant, country) and different user proﬁles. As soon 
as any data is entered it undergoes formal controls and consistency assessments 
and subsequent series of validations. In the various countries where Enel ope-
rates, over 250 personnel with over 20 training sessions were trained in its use.
1 Enel Group’s environmental policy extends across the entire value chain and applies: to all the production 
phases of every product and service, including distribution and logistic phases, in addition to related 
waste management; to each site and building; all the relationships with external stakeholders; all merg-
ers and acquisitions; every key business partner (including partners related to non-managed operations, 
joint ventures, outsourcing or third-party producers); every supplier, including service and contractor 
suppliers; all due diligence processes as well as and Merger and Acquisition processes.
172 Sustainability Report 2019