s
ar
pill
ur 
O
Environmental  which take into account both internal and external contexts. 
Enel is also registered with the EMAS Scheme (Eco-Man-
Management Systems  
agement and Audit Scheme, https://corporate.enel.it/it/sto-
ries/a/2016/11/certiﬁcations-emas) for its main thermoelec-
One of the strategic objectives of the Group’s Environmen- tric and geothermal production sites in Europe. Moreover, 
tal policy is the application of the ISO 14001 certiﬁed Envi- in complying with the four fundamental pillars that form the 
ronmental Policy Systems, across the whole organisation  basis of Enel’s environmental policy, speciﬁcally in terms of  es
n
o
structure. By the end of 2019, practically all the operational  our commitment towards “protecting the environment by  b
k
c
a
businesses had activated and certiﬁed Environmental Man- preventing adverse effects”, in 2018 the Group’s “Stop Work  b
G 
S
agement Systems (production plants, networks, services,  Policy” was deﬁned, whereby all employees are temporarily  E
buildings, sales, etc.). Preparatory work has been commenced  required to stop working when risks arise affecting not only 
for new plants and installations in view of their certiﬁcation.  their own health and safety, but environmental safety too.
Given the complexity and the variety of its activities, the  Training is one of the strategic objectives of the Group’s pol-
Group  decided  to  adopt  management  systems  using  a  icy and forms an integral part of the Environmental Manage-
modular approach. Thus, an ISO 14001:2015 certiﬁed man- ment System. In 2019, around 33,000 training hours were 
agement system was established at Holding level, providing  given on the Environmental Management Systems, which 
guidelines and coordinating the Business Lines in terms of  included, for example, water and waste management, envi-
e
environmental issues. Each Business Line then launched its  ronmental remediation, and preventative works. not
al 
own Environmental Management System focussed on its  2019 saw the completion of an environmental training pro- gic
o
own speciﬁc activities. The management systems adopted  gramme  aimed  at  upskilling  technical  personnel,  whilst  ol
d
o
comply with the new requirements introduced under the  increasing  the  environmental  awareness  of  operations  eth
M
most recent regulatory standards (14001:2015). In particular,  management staff. Launched in 2018, across the Thermal 
with respect to context analysis, the systems use the ana- Generation in Italy, this programme was extended to oth-
lytical data from the Sustainability Report (for further infor- er Business Lines and will be extended to other countries 
mation, refer to the chapter on the “Deﬁnition of priorities”)  throughout 2020.
Enel Stop Work Policy
x
di
n
At Enel we are constantly working to promote and consolidate a culture of health and safety for everyone involved in our  pe
p
activities wherever they are in the world. We are raising awareness of risks and promoting responsible behaviour in order  & A
to ensure that work is carried out to a high quality standard without accidents or injuries, because everyone who works  nd 
o
B
with us represents our most precious resource, deserving of our protection. n 
e
We are committed to protecting the environment, with the conviction that preventing risks and promoting responsible  Gre
behaviour is key to defending our well-being and that of future generations.
We therefore ask each and every one of you to intervene quickly and stop any activity that might jeopardize your 
health and safety or that of others or, similarly, that might cause harm to the environment. Speciﬁcally, these are acti-
vities that could be detrimental to the quality of environmental elements (air, soil, water, ﬂora and fauna), or to a site’s 
archaeological and artistic heritage.
We also ask you to promptly report to your immediate superior or to a higher local Enel representative, any unsafe 
behaviour and any action, omission, or situation that could potentially lead to a workplace injury or environmental damage.
The order to Stop Work must be applied without fear of consequences. No blame or responsibility will be attributed to 
an employee or subcontractor who reports in good faith a situation of particular risk or who stops work, even if this action 
should subsequently prove to have been unnecessary.
Our daily commitment is to the health and safety of workers and the protection of the environment, which take 
priority over any other need.
Francesco Starace
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and General Manager
Environmental sustainability 173