Environmental risk analysis  
102-15
In order to identify and minimise environmental risks related to 
its activities, Enel, as well as adopting the ISO 14001 certiﬁed 
Environmental Management Systems across every single pro-
duction site and operational unit, also uses an important analyt-
ical and intervention tool at Group level which works in synergy 
across all these entities to protect the environment. 
>  Group Policy for the classiﬁcation and analysis of 
Accidental Environmental Events. Accidental Environ-
mental Events are classiﬁed according to their type and 
relevance. This classiﬁcation is based on their possible 
impact on the environmental matrices and on any poten-
tial sensitive areas (eco-systems and protected areas), 
in addition to their negative impact on the organisation 
itself. The policy deﬁnes the communication procedures 
for such events, analysing their causes, monitoring sub-
sequent corrective actions and improvements in accord-
ance with their classiﬁcation and relevance. Rigorously 
applying them across all the Group organisational activ-
ities ensures Enel’s ownership of a robust and timely 
environmental control tool. experts for power stations and operational structures 
>  Environmental Risk and Opportunity Assessment  in order to identify improvement plans and to share 
Policy. Throughout 2019 and at Group level, over 1,200  best practices. In 2019, the Business Lines across all 
environmental risk analyses were performed in as many  the countries where the Group operates realised over 
operational sites and Staff Functions across all the geo- 230 ECoS (between safety and environment). With a 
graphical areas where Enel operates, consolidating pre- structured approach contained in speciﬁc assessment 
vious divisional approaches into one single model which  clusters, ECoS have analysed workplaces, control and 
is a shared, organic and homogeneous analytical model.  management  systems,  organisational  structures  and 
This analysis, speciﬁcally, has ensured a more effective  environmental practices, in addition to health and safety 
identiﬁcation, classiﬁcation and management of risks  practices. 
and opportunities both for the environment and for the  >  Supplier Environmental Assessment. Considering the 
organisation. The adoption of this approach, with an in- importance of suppliers in deﬁning the Company’s com-
creased focus on the entire life cycle, involved the anal- plex environmental services, at the end of 2019 Enel de-
ysis of the processes and operational activities carried  cided to adopt a structured and homogeneous supplier 
out at each site or territorial environment. It assesses  environmental assessment procedure across the Group. 
potential interactions with the environmental matrices  This supplier assessment can be implemented during 
as well as using controls or regulatory compliance, in- the supplier qualiﬁcation phase, especially for high-risk 
cluding the most stringent self-imposed targets, to en- environmental activities requiring a minimum standard 
able continuous improvement. Risk assessments were  to be qualiﬁed as an Enel supplier. However, if signiﬁ-
also extended to environmental issues related to gov- cant environmental events should occur, a supplier may 
ernance and to the strategic guidelines applied from the  undergo an extraordinary assessment for the purposes 
organisation’s central Functions.  of identifying the areas for improvement, which the sup-
> Extra Checking on Site (ECoS) Policy. ECoS is a planning  plier is then required to implement, to prevent this event 
and site visit tool used by groups of inter-departmental  from re-occurring in the future.  
174 Sustainability Report 2019