s
ar
pill
ur 
O
  in the existing thermal plants, it is also evolving to- icant volumes, Enel has adopted cleaning techniques 
wards  mixed  sources,  renewable  energies,  in  addi- for these plants based on algorithms to optimise water 
tion to reducing power generation from fossil fuels  consumption.
sources by changing the scope of its power stations. >  Optimisation  of  wastewater  treatment  and  pro-
  The total water requirements for the Group’s production  tection of the water quality in the destination en-
activities are covered by withdrawing from sources that  vironment. Wastewaters is the water used in plants 
are non-scarce (seawater), scarce (surface freshwater,  which, after recovery and reuse for internal purposes,  es
n
o
groundwater and water from industrial aqueducts) or  is returned to the original surface water bodies. Water  b
k
c
through the use of wastewater from production process- is always discharged downstream to the treatment pro- ba
G 
es. The Group is committed to reducing water consump- cess, removing any potential pollutants present to avoid  ES
tion in its production processes, speciﬁcally promoting  any negative impacts, always within the national bench-
water recirculation within the plants. In some coal-ﬁred  marked and regulatory standards. Where locally permit-
power stations, for example, drainage water from the  ted, Enel uses, as incoming water resources for its own 
closed-circuit cooling towers is reused in desulphuri- processes, wastewaters, typically supplied by waste 
sation, whereas the use of crystallisers downstream  management consortia downstream to the treatment 
to the desulphurisers allows the total recovery of the  processes. 
wastewater. >  Responsible and integrated management of the hy-
e
  Enel is constantly monitoring all its production sites lo- dro-geological basins to preserve their multiple land  not
al 
cated in areas at risk of water scarcity in order to man- uses and water quality. The activities of hydroelectric  gic
o
age the water resource as efﬁciently as possible. In par- power stations are an important element of water man- ol
d
o
ticular, site monitoring takes place through the following  agement. These power stations, which do not contrib- eth
M
levels of analysis: ute to the Group’s water consumption in that the water 
>  mapping of the production sites located in potential  withdrawn is completely returned to its source, provide 
“water scarcity” areas, where the average value of  a series of additional services for the Company in solely 
the renewable water resources per person is below  generating renewable energies.
the benchmark set by the FAO (mapping is done    In fact, a variety of power stations, jointly managed by 
using the Global Water Tool of the World Business  public stakeholders and private entities, manage the 
Council for Sustainable Development); water resource for multi-purpose services ranging from  x
di
>  identiﬁcation  of  “critical”  production  sites,  i.e.  ﬂood control, drinking water and irrigation, ﬁre preven- en
p
p
production sites in “Water Scarcity Areas” with a  tion services, to river waste dam retention works, with- & A
freshwater supply; out forgetting numerous cultural initiatives, leisure and  nd 
o
B
>  more  efﬁcient  water  management  to  maximise  nature-based activities organised with respect to the  n 
e
e
wastewater and seawater supplies. installations themselves. The contribution of the hydro- Gr
  In 2019, approximately 8% of total energy produced  electric power plant reservoirs is particularly relevant in 
by the Enel Group used freshwater in so-called “water  counteracting the effects of climate change as the plant 
stressed” areas8. In these areas, water is withdrawn  increases the level of community protection in areas 
mainly from scarce source and comprises 14% of the  where communities are consistently subject to increas-
Group’s overall supply. ingly frequent extreme ﬂooding events or long periods 
  The high increase in the number of solar plants, natural- of drought.
ly suited to installation in “water stressed” areas, had    It can be furthermore underlined the management of the 
brought to the fore a new water use connected with  outﬂows from the hydroelectric power stations through 
the cleaning of dust deposits on the surfaces of the  speciﬁc programmes to ensure the required volumes to 
photo-voltaic panels. Although these represent insignif- preserve river ecology (minimum vital water ﬂows).
8 The World Resources Institute (WRI) defined a “Water Stressed Area” as 
an area where the availability of water pro capite per annum is less than 
1,700 m3.
Environmental sustainability 179