s
ar
pill
ur 
O
Waste 
103-2 103-3 306-2
comparable information on the environmental impact of 
substances and supplied products, in an eventual life-cy-
Reduction of waste 
(mil t) cle; for example taking into account the environmental prod- es
n
uct declarations, where available.  bo
k
c
Similarly, increasing focus was also placed on the adoption  ba
G 
9.4 9.0 7.2 5.64 of the Extended Producer Responsibility models (EPR)  ES
also in relation to the post-consumption phases of the prod-
-40%
vs base ucts and services provided. Of particular interest in relation 
year 2017
to this in 2019 was the Enel X commitment in using a model 
integrated with the e-mobility services which ensured a rig-
orous and efﬁcient end-of-life management of the electric 
car recharging infrastructures (box stations, pole stations, 
fast-recharges) and their recovery (up to 95% in weight) as 
e
WEEE products through its membership, in Italy, in the Re- ot
n
media consortium. cal 
gi
o
In the same way, the environmental qualiﬁcation of all  ol
d
o
2017 2018 2019 2030 Target providers, including speciﬁcally providers of waste process- h
et
Base year M
ing and recovery services, has become an integral part of 
Enel’s environmental management model. This seeks to pro-
mote increasingly higher levels of requirements in relation to 
environmental sustainability management across its entire 
Another strategic objective of Enel’s environmental policy is  supplier base. 
optimum waste management (for further information, re- The commitment to a continuous increase in the percentile 
fer to point 5 of the environmental policy) which details the  recovery of waste produced is fundamental to ensure an 
x
di
speciﬁc lines of action inspired by the Waste Hierarchy Pre- efﬁcient transition from a linear economy to a circular econo- en
p
p
vention community principles and by the circular economy. my in order to minimise the exploitation of natural resources  A
& 
In order to further reinforce this commitment and within the  in accordance with sustainable objectives and in combating  d 
n
o
perspective of continuous improvement, throughout 2019  climate change.  n B
e
Enel introduced Group Guidelines on Waste Manage- The signiﬁcant recovery of process waste arising from  Gre
ment, where best practices deemed fundamental for opti- thermal power generation plays a fundamental role in this 
mum waste management were collected and collated under  due to the signiﬁcant quantities linked to the progress of the 
a common denominator for all the Business Lines, for waste  production activities and to their chemical-physical proper-
directly produced or produced by subcontractors’ activities.  ties. These mainly include coal ash and desulphurisation gyp-
Waste management strategies adopted across all Enel pro- sum, reused in building works to produce cement, concrete 
duction sites mainly focus on preventing waste produc- and bricks according to speciﬁc technical and environmental 
tion,  particularly  hazardous  waste,  thereby  maximising  control requirements. Many other maintenance products 
the quantities for reuse, recycling or recovery, such as  are sent for complete recovery from the thermal power 
by-products, secondary raw materials or used as energy  stations, such as waste oils, a large number of metal waste 
sources only using waste disposal to landﬁlls in accordance  products, iron, copper, aluminium as well as waste from pri-
with legal requirements, as a last resort. mary ﬁltration processes in the hydroelectric plants.
Enel speciﬁcally set important waste product reduction  An important commitment was furthermore undertaken last 
targets, as shown in the “2020-2030 Target” on waste.  year to focus on ensuring the recovery of waste products 
There was also a greater effort in acquiring transparent and  arising from demolition and dismantling of end-of-life 
Environmental sustainability 181