power plants and from re-purposed power plants under the  (7%). These materials can be properly recovered in autho-
Futur-e project, by using selective demolition techniques of  rised processing plants and so become reusable resources 
the structures, as well as solutions to enhance the materials  in other production cycles. From the perspective of the cir-
produced.  cular economy, even non-plastic materials are completely 
In order to identify and to continue more targeted and ef- recyclable: electric circuit boards for example can be sent for 
ﬁcacious improvement initiatives, particular attention was  gold recovery, copper can be used in the production of brass, 
paid in 2019 to assessing the quantities of hazardous waste  iron in the building industry. 
across the Group’s main geographic areas focussing on the  In relation to the overall data reported, in 2019, Enel pro-
waste products generated from the management of the  duced approximately 7.2 mil t of waste of which 99% were 
electricity distribution networks and their recovery pro- classiﬁed as non-hazardous. All the waste produced by the 
grammes. The main waste products in this sector mainly  Group’s activity was sent to authorised sites based on their 
comprise dielectric mineral oils used in the insulation of elec- waste classiﬁcation, prioritising and maximising their re-
trical equipment and end-of-life accumulators used as ener- covery, in line with the Group’s policies. The quantities pro-
gy reserves in transformation stations. Once classiﬁed as  duced were 20% less than in 20189. This variation is due to 
waste products, these oils are sent to companies registered/ a lower production of waste from the thermal power plants, 
authorised for regeneration and waste-to-energy treatment,  speciﬁcally from coal-fuelled plants. Waste products sent 
where regeneration is not possible, whereas the end-of-life  for recovery across the whole Enel structure counted for 
accumulators are sent to registered/authorised companies  approximately 19% of the total waste produced; a slight im-
that can recover secondary raw materials.  provement on the previous year. The waste reduction target 
Particularly relevant within the scope of the Business Line  in terms of quantity amounted to 20% compared to the base 
infrastructure & Networks are the results obtained by the  year 2015 and was achieved a year in advance.
projects launched across various countries for the sustain- Enel has therefore set itself a further target: a 40% reduc-
able replacement of intelligent ﬁrst-generation meters  tion in waste production by 2030 compared to the reported 
and the recovery of their constituent materials. Speciﬁ- totals in 2017. This target is based on results already achieved 
cally, in Italy, in 2017, a campaign was launched to replace  and takes into account, in addition to the three-year Industrial 
around 31 million smart meters, and by the end of 2019, over  Plan which envisages an evolution of the energy mix towards 
6 million smart meters of ﬁrst generation were replaced. A  renewable energies, the best projections currently available 
meter comprises 65% plastic, with the remaining materials  for the period subsequent to the plan’s time frame.
being iron (12%), copper (7%) and electronic circuit boards 
ZERO Plastics Project
The “ZERO, towards a plastic-free world” project aims to gradually eliminate the use of single-use plastics within the 
Enel Group. The World Environment Day, June 5, 2019, saw Enel at the forefront of the global ﬁght for a better planet, 
empowering the whole Group, with tens of thousands of people engaged actively in protecting the environment.
The project was launched in Italy and Spain, and will be extended to other countries where Enel operates, from 2020 
onwards. This involves the elimination of single-use plastics from the Group’s main ofﬁces and will be subsequently 
extended to all the administration headquarters and ﬁnally to the industrial sites. 
In 2019, in Italy alone, this initiative involved 29 sites of approximately 10,000 employees. The project had a signiﬁcant 
impact on catering services, which was mainly comprised of vending machines, bars and canteens. Water fonts 
connected directly to the water network have been installed to reﬁll water bottles, whilst bars and canteens have
9 There has been a 32% reduction in waste products compared to the base 
year 2015.
182 Sustainability Report 2019