s
ar
pill
ur 
O
reviewed their own structures in terms of this “plastic free” initiative. Where it was not possible to eliminate single-use 
cutlery and crockery, these items were replaced by compostable materials. This initiative was launched in conjunction 
with a communication and awareness campaign seeking to encourage all employees to engage in responsible behaviours 
in the workplace as well as at home.
It is estimated that in 2019, this reduced the consumption of 27 t of single-use plastic, saving 59 t of CO2 emissions,  es
n
1,300 m3 of water and 532 MWh of electrical energy. Thus it is envisaged that plastics will be completely eliminated  o
b
k
from main ofﬁces by 2021, well in advance of the deadline set by the new European directive. In Italy and Spain,  ac
b
G 
in particular, the project foresees a reduction in the consumption of single-use plastic in the administration ofﬁces  S
E
respectively by 91% and 65% compared to 2018. Similar targets will be deﬁned throughout the course of 2020 for all 
the countries where the Group operates. 
Furthermore, during the subsequent stages of the project, ZERO will be also extended to the supply chain.  
e
ot
n
Soil, subsoils and subterranean waters   al 
c
gi
o
ol
d
o
h
et
M
Thus, before power plants come to the end of their life cycle 
103-2 103-3
and are dismantled, and before the reassignment of the area 
Enel continues with its commitment to using the most ad- to new development projects, Enel can, according to the 
vanced technologies available as well as applying best prac- authorised provisions and legal requirements of the various 
tices during the construction, operation and the decommis- countries, verify the environmental quality of the soil, subsoil 
sioning of its power stations to minimise any potential envi- and groundwater in the areas where the plant is located.
ronmental impacts caused by its activities. Among the various  In the case of potential contamination due to an accident or 
x
di
areas of prevention, the highest level of attention is focused  in light of inspections carried out on the end of life plants,  n
e
p
on the safeguarding, monitoring and reclaiming of soil,  Enel, based on the intervention plans agreed with the com- Ap
& 
subsoil and subterranean water in the areas occupied by  petent authorities and inspection entities, can characterise  d 
n
o
its plants wherever it operates globally. The safeguarding of  the environmental matrices in the areas of potential interest,  n B
e
these environmental factors is the driver, starting from the  and implement, if necessary, safety and remediation proce- Gre
very ﬁrst life-cycle phase of every plant, to every project  dures, to restore, in a timely manner, a suitable quality status 
choice and management decision. Both active and passive  for the planned use of the area (industrial/commercial, resi-
protection and safety measures will be used to prevent any  dential). Particular focus is on power plants falling within the 
possible form of uncontrolled or accidental contact of poten- large industrial hubs.
tially polluting substances (fuels, reagents, liquid and waste  In case of spills, mostly related to thermal generation and 
ﬂows) with soils and subterranean waters. At the same time,  energy distribution, the Group reacts with prompt contain-
during plant operations, every process will undergo compli- ment interventions as well as the subsequent environmen-
ance controls as well as ongoing upgrades as required by the  tal remediation are carried out by specialist companies, ac-
Environmental Management Systems to prevent and mini- cording to procedures imposed by local regulations and best 
mise the risks of any potential environmental contamination.  internal practices. To mitigate further risks related to hold-
In the event of an accident, the application of the Stop Work  ing substances which could have an environmental impact, 
and Emergency Management Policies aims to eliminate any  there are various pilot programmes in course which involve 
possible environmental impact, rigorously complying with the  the use of vegetable oil, a biodegradable oil, to replace the 
provisions and the legal obligations of the various countries. traditional insulation mineral oil.
Environmental sustainability 183