Coracias project: protection of the European roller
Also known as the Coracias garrulus, the European roller is the only bird belonging to the coraciiform order of birds that 
reproduces in Europe but it can also be found in the Middle East, Central Asia and Morocco. This is a resilient bird, similar 
to the jackdaw in terms of size (29-32 cm long with a wing span of 52-58 cm). It has mainly blue plumage and a dark brown 
back.
The European roller is a critically endangered species. It spends the winter in Africa, and migrates further north in the sum-
mer, seeking cooler areas to mate. Due to the increase of intensive farming here, it has been impacted by the reduction 
of the number of suitable sites to build its nests. Enel, that operates through Endesa Distribución in the territories where 
the European roller migrates, decided to assist with the survival of this species by installing artiﬁcial nests on the pylons 
of its electricity network.
The Coracias project, in particular, involves installing new, highly resistant nests, speciﬁcally designed for this species, on 
the electrical pylons inside the protected area of the Aiguamolls de l’Empordà natural park, as well as monitoring the occu-
pation of these box-nests, the production rate of fertile birds and the calls of the chicks, using GPS to track tagged adults 
and data analysis to promote the adoption of targeted measures in the future.
Romania: birdlife conservation on electric lines 
 
The falcon is a critically endangered species worldwide, and in Romania is only found in the Banat and Dobrogea 
regions. It thrives on open ﬁelds, with low trees density using electric power lines where it lands to prepare to swoop 
on its prey. 
In the Timis and Arad zones, in collaboration with the environmental association Milvus, E-Distribuție Banat employe-
es installed and replaced insulating sleeves on the medium/high voltage electrical lines as well as installing artiﬁcial 
nests for single Saker falcons (Falco cherrug) passing through. This work is part of the European LIFE + Project “Con-
servation of the Falco cherrug in North-east Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia”.
More recently a new webcam has been set up, in order to monitor the use of the nest on the pole of a high-voltage 
line. This camera is ﬁtted with solar panels and transmits high-quality images.
Storks also have a predilection for electric poles when building their beautiful nests, which can be up to 2 m in dia-
meter, and arrive in Europe in the spring. Since 2010, Enel workers in Banat, Dobrogea and Muntenia have built over 
700 nesting platforms on electric poles and pylons as well as installing safety insulation sleeves on over 4,000 poles.
Much like storks, European rollers migrate to Europe in the spring when the cultivated lands are in full crop and there 
is an abundance of insects, which is their main diet.
Enel protects the European roller in Romania and in Spain. By 2020, in collaboration with the Milvus environmental 
association under the European Project LIFE+ “Conservation of the European Roller (Coracias garrulus) in the Carpa-
thian Basin”, 600 medium-voltage pylons will be made safe in the nesting areas (https://rollerproject.eu/en/content/
project-actions).
188 Sustainability Report 2019