s
ar
pill
ur 
O
El Quimbo – restocking of juvenile ﬁsh 
The hydroelectric power plant of El Quimbo continues to invest in its commitments undertaken to beneﬁt local communities. 
Traditional artisanal ﬁshing is one of the production activities on the Rio Magdalena. During the construction of the power 
plant, people involved in this activity have been identiﬁed, and a programme to manage both the water and ﬁshing resources 
s
was developed. ne
o
b
The outcome of this programme in 2019 saw the introduction of 200,000 juvenile capavin, with Enel initiating the re-stocking  ck
a
b
of the Magdalena river to relaunch ﬁshing activities for the inhabitants of the El Quimbo basin.  G 
S
E
This project involved over 10 years of research to come to fruition, selecting and sourcing the juvenile ﬁsh now distributed 
across El Quimbo today. This was the ﬁrst project authorised in June 2019 by the National Aquaculture and Fishery Authorities 
(Autoridad Nacional de Acuicultura y Pesca - AUNAP) to introduce native species into the upper basin of the Magdalena river 
at the El Quimbo dam. Hence a project with enormous social impact for approximately 200 ﬁshermen from Puerto Seco to 
La Jagua was launched.
To date, a total of 320,000 juvenile bocachico have repopulated the areas in the Municipalities of Garzón, Gigante and Yaguara 
of the Huila department, which will total 800,000 ﬁsh of the golden species including bocachico, peje and patalo, by 2020.
e
ot
n
al 
c
gi
o
ol
d
o
h
et
M
Other activities
Enel X: e-mobility 
x
di
n
e
p
p
A
& 
Testament to the extensive commitment to sustainable mobili- d 
n
o
ty through the electriﬁcation of the circulating vehicles and the  n B
e
resulting savings of CO2 emissions, Enel X has designed the  Gre
e-mobility Emission Saving tool, using a speciﬁc algorithm to 
calculate the amounts of CO saved when an electric or electri-
2
ﬁed vehicle is used compared to a traditional endothermic en-
gine. The e-mobility Emission Saving tool is the ﬁrst algorithm 
validated by an internationally-recognised certiﬁcation autho-
rity (RINA) for this very purpose. January 2018 to December 
2019 saw over 800,000 recharges at Enel X stations across 
Italy; approximately 10 mil of kWh energy was delivered by the 
charging stations and electrical vehicle drivers travelled approxi-
mately 59 mil km. The kWh distributed from the recharging 
stations are regularly calculated by the EMM system (Electro 
Mobility Management Platform), the Enel X digital platform that 
continuously manages information related to the recharging of 
electric vehicles across Italy, accessible to both public and pri-
Environmental sustainability 189