vate parties. The data is transmitted from the fast (JuicePump)  nes, showing immediately the mitigation of the environmen-
and quick (JuicePole and Pole Station) infrastructures equipped  tal impacts of the electric lines. The increase in this index 
with an internal measuring device and from the connected Jui- over time is due to an increase in the length of overhead and 
ceBoxes installed at home.  underground cable lines, reducing the quota of bare conduc-
The calculation of CO saved is a combination of the data on the  tors; with beneﬁts in terms of the resilience of the network, 
2
distance travelled by 100% electric-powered vehicles (BEV) or  curtailing plant-cutting activities and a drastic reduction in the 
plug-in hybrids (PHEV) only using electricity and the calculation  risk of electrocution for birdlife.
of the mean consumptions of vehicles from a recent ofﬁcial  In 2019, the conﬁrmed cable ratio was 60.1%, also due to 
study by the Milan Polytechnic. The ﬁndings compare the kilo- the signiﬁcant contribution of the Brazilian companies in Rio 
metres that can be travelled with the average emissions from  de Janeiro and São Paulo. This percentage is in line with the 
endothermic vehicles circulating in Italy published annually by  targets set for the next ﬁve years. 
ISPRA (the Italian Institute for Environmental Protection and  The reduction of network losses is guaranteed through inter-
Research) net of the CO emitted to produce energy based  ventions which also contribute to reducing CO emissions. 
2 2
on the national energy mix. To reinforce the algorithm, Enel  These actions focus on power plants, and aim, for example, 
X converted the amount of CO saved from the environment  to progressively reduce single-phase electric lines as well as 
2
into the number of trees that would have absorbed this same  the construction of new electric lines to lighten the load on 
quantity of emissions over a year. The result is measured by the  the pre-existing ones in addition to the use of low-loss tran-
relationship between the quantity of CO a tree absorbs (2019  sformers. Other actions include boosting the grid by using 
2
reﬁnement to the 2006 IPCC guidelines for National Greenhou- conductors with a greater cross-section and rephasing primary 
se Gas inventories) and those of the saved emissions, thereby  transformer. Finally, the realisation of new transformer cabins 
obtaining the number of equivalent trees which contribute to  will help reduce the length of the low-voltage lines which are 
the “four-wheel forest” which every Enel X client creates by  characterised by higher levels of loss. More broadly, optimising 
responsible behaviour towards their surrounding environment.  the network asset will allow a signiﬁcant reduction of its losses.
This algorithm was developed in Italy, but was designed to be 
used in other countries taking into account the average CO
2  Fuel deposit and movement
emissions of the vehicle ﬂeet circulating in the territory (CO/
2
km) and the emissions of the national energy mix (CO/kWh). 
2
The dashboard is available for users on the homepage of the  Storage tanks for liquid fuels (oil and gas with adjacent pi-
Enel X website; the calculation of the CO saved by each indivi- pelines) and solid fuels (coal and lignite located at dedicated 
2
dual recharging session will soon be available on the JuicePass  ports) are monitored in terms of resource usage, consump-
app and on the Recharge Manager portal, dedicated to busi- tion of electrical energy, emissions (air quality), wastewaters 
nesses and public services. Enel X will furthermore introduce  and wastes.
a system for viewing the aggregated data related to the emis-
sions saved also on the recharging displays of the JuicePole 
Sustainable construction sites
and JuicePump infrastructure. Thanks to recharges, 6,800 t of 
CO have been saved – the equivalent of 379,000 trees
2
From 2013 onwards, the Enel Group launched a report on the 
main  environment  performance  indicators  relating  to  con-
Distribution
struction sites activities. This category includes activities of 
various types and scales: from the distribution area’s yards to 
In order to protect the countryside and the whole country,  sites pertaining to thermal plants or the construction of new 
Global Infrastructure and Networks have adopted speciﬁc  renewable hydroelectric, wind, solar, geothermal or biomass 
strategies to mitigate the environmental impacts of building  plants. These activities are subject to signiﬁcant variations over 
activities related to new networks in addition to upgrades to  the years in terms of environmental issues directly managed 
existing networks. by the Group. From 2016 onwards, reporting was developed 
The cabling ratio is the relationship (in percentages) betwe- and based on a new model of the sustainable construction 
en the lengths of the cable lines and the total length of the li- site and on the principles of the circular economy which are 
190 Sustainability Report 2019