s
ar
pill
ur 
O
Sound governance Socially Responsible Investors 
(SRI) evolution
182
169
160
150
132
s
e
n
14.1% o
13.7% kb
11.3% No. SRI1  bac
G 
10.3% 10.5% % free ﬂoat ES
10.5% 10.8% % share capital
8.6%
8.0%
7.7%
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1  The ﬁgure does not include 24 funds for which 
the investment advisor could not be identiﬁed. e
ot
n
al 
c
gi
o
ol
d
Relations with shareholders and the ﬁnancial community ho
et
M
Since the listing of its shares on the Stock Exchange, Enel has deemed it appropriate to set up corporate structures 
dedicated to dialogue with institutional investors and with the majority of shareholders. As such, the Company set 
up: (i) the Investor Relations unit, currently within the Administration, Finance and Control Function; (ii) an area in the 
Corporate Affairs Unit, which is in turn part of the Legal and Corporate Affairs Function. In this context, Enel maintains 
dialogue with investors based on the principles of fairness and transparency, in compliance with EU and national 
regulations on market abuse, as well as in line with international best practices. Among other things, the Investor 
Relations unit draws up Enel’s “equity story” and organises meetings between the Company’s top management and  x
di
institutional investors and ﬁnancial analysts. It also oversees the documentation to be submitted to the latter when  en
p
p
disclosing periodic ﬁnancial data to the market and updating of the Group’s Strategic Plan as part of Capital Markets Day.  A
& 
This is accompanied by ordinary activities, which include group or individual meetings, conference calls and interaction  nd 
o
B
with ﬁnancial analysts, with the aim of supporting them in their analysis and, lastly, facilitating the correct assessment  n 
e
e
of the Company by the ﬁnancial community. The Investor Relations unit – with the support of the Innovability Function  Gr
– also discusses environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) issues with investors, topics which can have major 
ﬁnancial repercussions in the medium and long term. Moreover, Enel’s website (www.enel.com, “Investors” section) 
contains economic, ﬁnancial, environmental, social and governance information and updated data and documents of 
particular interest, providing a multidisciplinary and integrated vision.
Capital Markets Day 2019
Capital Markets Day 2019 has proven to be a sustainable event, in line with the Group’s business model, centred on 
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Through the Resex Rio Preto-Jacundá REDD+ project, 
created by the Brazilian company Biofílica, Enel contributed to the conservation of the Amazon rainforest, the largest 
tropical forest in the world and one of the main sources of oxygen on the planet. This way it has been possible to offset 
the CO emissions caused by the main ﬁnancial marketing events of the last year. Further details can be found in the 
2
“Investors” section of the website www.enel.com
Sound governance 197