Age diversity1 (no.) ﬁed viewpoints to examine the issues being discussed from 
different perspectives. 
46-56 1 Towards the end of ﬁnancial year 2019 and during the ﬁrst 
two months of 2020, the Board of Directors carried out – 
with the assistance of a specialised consultancy ﬁrm – an 
57-67 6
evaluation of the size, composition and functioning of the 
Board itself and its committees (“board review”), in line 
68-71 2
with the most advanced corporate governance practices 
followed abroad and adopted under the Corporate Govern-
ance Code. The assessment was carried out according to 
1 In line with the Global Reporting Initiative, the 9 members of the Board of  the “peer-to-peer review” method, i.e. by evaluating not only 
Directors all belong to the over 50 age group.
the functioning of the body as a whole, but also the style 
and content of the contribution made by each director. As 
With regard to succession plans for executive directors, in  part of this board review, the questionnaires and interviews 
September 2016, the Board of Directors – upon the proposal  regarded – among other things – the adoption of sustain-
of the Nomination and Compensation Committee, together  ability principles into the Company and Group’s strategies 
with the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Commit- and business model, together with the focus of the Board of 
tee – shared the contents of a speciﬁc “contingency plan”  Directors on issues of sustainability.
aimed at regulating the steps to be taken to ensure the  In 2019, the Company also organised a dedicated induction 
Company’s proper management in the event that the Chief  programme to give directors adequate knowledge of the 
Executive Ofﬁcer ceases to hold ofﬁce before the end of his/ Group’s business activities, as well as its corporate dynamics 
her ordinary term (so-called “crisis management” case).  and their evolution, market trends and legal framework; Stat-
In January 2018, the Board of Directors, upon the proposal  utory Auditors also took part in this programme. Initiatives 
of the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee  in 2019 included the creation of sustainable value (referring, 
and of the Nomination and Compensation Committee, in im- among others, to the Enel Group’s 2019-2021 Sustainabili-
plementation of the provisions of the Italian Consolidated  ty Plan and the positioning of the Group companies in the 
Financial Act, approved a Diversity Policy, which describes  main sustainability indices), the activities and strategies of 
the optimal features of the composition of the Board itself,  the Enel X Global Business Line, as well as in-depth meet-
in order for it to exercise its functions in the most effective  ings dedicated to Latin America Region and the principles of 
way, taking decisions with the contribution of multiple quali- correct risk management. 
200 Sustainability Report 2019