of the EUROSTOXX Utilities - EMU index in the three- the total) is deferred to the second ﬁnancial year after the 
year  period  2019-2021;  ROACE  (Return  on  Average  relevant three-year period referred to in the 2019 LTI Plan (i.e. 
Capital Employed) cumulative for the three-year period  deferred payment). 
2019-2021; CO emissions from the Enel Group’s power  The 2019 LTI Plan sets a target for CO emissions (grams per 
2 2
plants in 2021.  kWh equivalent produced by the Group in 2021) and, as part 
The 2019 LTI Plan also provides that any premium accrued  of the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and General Manager’s short-
is represented by a share component, to which a monetary  term variable remuneration plan, a target linked to safety in 
component can be added based on the level of achievement  the workplace with the aim of promoting the application of a 
of the various targets. In particular, it is envisaged that  sustainable business model. 
100% of the basic premium of the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer  A detailed description of the remuneration policy for 2019 
and General Manager and 50% of the basic premium of  and compensations paid in 2018 is provided in the 2019 
the DRSs will be paid in Enel shares, previously acquired  Remuneration Report available on the Company website 
by the Company. The disbursement of a signiﬁcant portion  (www.enel.com).
of the long-term variable remuneration (equal to 70% of 
Internal Control and Risk 
Management System 
102-11 102-15 102-25 102-28 102-29 102-30 103-2 103-3 201-2
The  Internal  Control  and  Risk  Management  System  >  ensures  the  necessary  separation  of  operating  and 
(“SCIGR”) consists of the set of rules, procedures, and  control activities, so as to prevent or – where that is not 
organisational entities aimed at allowing the main corporate  possible – mitigate conﬂicts of interest; 
risks within the Group to be identiﬁed, measured, managed  >  guarantees the traceability of the tasks of identifying, 
and monitored. assessing, managing, and monitoring risks, ensuring 
The SCIGR is integrated into the more general organisational  the reconstruction of the sources over time and the 
and corporate governance structures adopted by the Company  information that supports these tasks. 
and by the Group and is based on national and international  The SCIGR is divided into three distinct types of activities:
best practices. In particular, the system takes into account  >  “line” or “ﬁrst level” controls, consisting of all control 
the recommendations of the Corporate Governance Code  tasks  that  the  individual  operating  units  or  Group 
and is consistent with the “Internal Controls – Integrated  companies  perform  on  their  processes  in  order  to 
Framework” model issued by the Committee of Sponsoring  ensure that operations are carried out properly;
Organisations  of  the  Treadway  Commission  (“COSO  >  “second level” controls, which are entrusted to speciﬁc 
Report”) – the internationally recognised benchmark for  corporate  Functions  and  aimed  at  managing  and 
the analysis and integrated assessment of the SCIGR’s  monitoring typical risk categories;
effectiveness. >  internal audit activity (“third level” controls) aimed at 
Speciﬁcally, the SCIGR: checking the structure and overall functionality of the 
>  sets out control actions at every operating level and  SCIGR, including by monitoring the “line” and “second 
clearly identiﬁes duties and responsibilities, so as to  level” controls.
avoid  duplications  of  tasks  and  ensure  coordination  The SCIGR is subject to periodical tests and checks, taking 
among the main persons involved in the SCIGR itself;  into account the evolution of corporate operations and the 
202 Sustainability Report 2019