s
ar
pill
ur 
O
s
e
n
o
b
k
c
a
b
G 
S
E
e
ot
n
situation in question, as well as current best practices at  civil society, academic institutions, local communities,  cal 
gi
national and international level. customers and suppliers, in the various countries where  olo
d
The various risk types are included in the paragraph “Setting  the Group operates;  ho
et
priorities” and in the 2019 Annual Report, available on the  >  the  analyses  of  some  of  the  world’s  most  highly  M
Company website (www.enel.com). acclaimed ESG rating agencies, which use speciﬁc risk 
For a detailed description of the tasks and responsibilities of  assessment systems to rate companies’ sustainability 
the main individuals involved in the SCIGR, as well as their  performance. 
respective coordination procedures, refer to the Guidelines of  The risks identiﬁcation from the analysis of these results, 
the Internal Control and Risk Management System available on  which gather the level of risk perceived by the relevant external 
the Company website (www.enel.com, “Investors” section). stakeholders, is aligned with the overall identiﬁcation of the 
x
di
risks carried out by Enel to select the main risks (ﬁnancial,  en
p
p
strategic, governance, operational, digital and compliance)  A
& 
Main ESG risk types to which it may be exposed and which require continuous  d 
n
o
monitoring through the internal auditing process. n B
e
Due to the nature of its business and geographic presence,  Moreover, in the risk identiﬁcation and assessment stage,  Gre
the Group is exposed to various types of environmental, social  the “Precautionary Principle”4 was applied, particularly to 
and governance-related (ESG) risks, of which the main types  risks relating to the environment, health and safety. For each 
are indicated in the table below, together with the activities for  type of risk, speciﬁc actions have been identiﬁed to mitigate 
mitigating their effects and ensuring their proper management.  their effects and ensure their proper management. Enel 
The following was considered in identifying potential risks:  also applies this principle to risk management, especially 
>  the results of the materiality analysis (see the section “At a  with regard to the development and introduction of new 
Glance” - “Deﬁnition of priorities” and the Methodological  products/technologies, planning of operating activities and 
note in this document);  the construction of new plants/assets.
>  the 2020 Global Risk Report of the World Economic Forum 
(WEF), involving more than 1,000 experts and leaders 
from around the world;
·  the risk assessment carried out as part of Enel’s due 
diligence process on human rights, which involved a 
4 Rio Declaration on the Environment and Development (Rio de Janeiro, June 
wide range of experts from different sectors, including  3-14, 1992), Principle 15.
Sound governance 203