ESG RISK RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES AND MITIGATION ACTIONS
Environmental aspects
Climate risks Physical risks arising from climate change can be classiﬁed as  The Group is committed to making continuous improvements 
acute (i.e. extreme events) and chronic: the former are linked to  to the environmental impact of its activities. It has constantly 
extremely intense weather-climatic conditions, while the latter  improved its emissions reduction targets, certifying a target 
refers to gradual but structural changes in climatic conditions.  with the SBTi in 2019 for 125 g/kWh of CO by 2030, head-
2
Extreme events may expose the Group to a potential unavai- ing for “zero emission generation” by 2050. For the Group’s 
lability of assets and infrastructures, restoration costs, and in- strategy, the decarbonization and electriﬁcation of consump-
convenience for customers, etc. Chronic changes in climatic  tion are two key pillars: considering also the enablers of digital 
conditions, on the other hand, may expose the Group to other  platforms and ecosystems and infrastructures for the energy 
physical risks or opportunities (depending on the geographi- transition, the Group is dedicating around 95% of the total 
cal location): for example, structural rainfall or wind changes  investments planned for the 2020-2022 period to climate ac-
could impact the Group’s business in terms of generation,  tions. The Group’s strategic actions make it possible to miti-
while structural temperature changes could have an impact on  gate the potential risks and grasp the opportunities provided 
electricity demand. by transition variables. Enel participates in the entire electricity 
With regard to the energy transition process moving towards a  value chain and has a diversiﬁed portfolio of activities, both in 
more sustainable model with a progressive electriﬁcation and  terms of generation technologies and the geographical areas 
reduction in CO, emissions, in line with the Group’s strate- and markets where it operates, mitigating climate change risks 
2
gy for carbon neutrality by 2050, there are risks, but above all  and their economic and ﬁnancial impacts. 
opportunities, tied to the changing regulatory context, techno- Weather and climate phenomena management adopts the 
logical and electriﬁcation trends, and resulting market develop- best strategies for prevention, protection and boosting resil-
ments, with potential effects also on commodities and energy  ience, while also carrying out weather forecasting activities. 
prices. Moreover, best practices are implemented on physical events 
to ensure a prompt recovery of operating conditions in the 
event of adverse events. In terms of insurance risk assessment 
activities, the Group manages a loss prevention programme for 
property risks, which also serves to assess the main exposures 
linked to natural events. All areas of the Group are subject to 
the ISO 14001 certiﬁcation and, by applying internationally 
recognised Environmental Management Systems (EMSs), po-
tential sources of risk are monitored so that any critical issue 
may be promptly identiﬁed. The Group develops short-, medi-
um- and long-term scenarios in the energy and the ﬁnancial 
macroeconomic sectors in order to support its strategic and 
industrial planning, investment valuation, scenario planning and 
extraordinary transactions. 
By gradually integrating climate and transition scenarios, com-
bined with the development of energy system models at coun-
try level, it is possible to intercept the effects on variables such 
as electricity demand, the system energy mix and the electri-
ﬁcation of consumption. These activities make it possible to 
identify and assess related risks and opportunities.
Further information on how this risk is managed can be found in 
the chapter “Commitment to the ﬁght against climate change”.
204 Sustainability Report 2019