s
ar
pill
ur 
O
ESG RISK RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES AND MITIGATION ACTIONS
Environmental aspects
Environmental  Last year saw the continuation of the growth in the sensitiv- Enel has made the effective prevention and minimization of en-
risks ity of the entire community to risks connected with develop- vironmental impacts and risks a foundational element of each 
s
ment models that generate environmental impacts and exploit  project across its entire life cycle. e
n
scarce natural resources (including many raw materials and  The adoption of ISO 14001-certiﬁed environmental manage- bo
water). In some cases, the synergistic effects between these  ment systems certiﬁed in all Group divisions ensure the imple- ck
a
impacts – such as global warming and the growing exploitation  mentation of structured policies and procedures to identify and  G b
and degradation of water resources – increase the risk of envi- manage the environmental risks and opportunities associated  S
E
ronmental emergencies arising in the most sensitive areas of  with all corporate activities. 
the planet, with the risk of various water resource uses having  Also contributing are the multitude of actions to achieve the 
to compete, such as industrial, agricultural and civil uses. challenging environmental improvement objectives set by Enel, 
In response to these needs, governments have imposed in- such as, for example, those regarding atmospheric emissions, 
creasingly restrictive environmental regulations, placing ever  waste production and water consumption, especially in areas 
more stringent constraints on the development of new indus- with high water stress.
trial initiatives and, in the most impactful industries, incentiviz- The risk of water scarcity is directly mitigated by Enel’s devel-
ing or requiring the elimination of technologies no longer con- opment strategy, which is based on the growth of generation 
sidered sustainable. from renewable sources that are essentially not dependent on 
In this context, companies in every sector, and above all indus- the availability of water for their operation. Special attention 
try leaders, are ever more aware that environmental risks are  is also devoted to assets in areas with a high level of water 
increasingly economic risks. As a result, they are called upon  stress, in order to develop technological solutions to reduce  e
to increase their commitment and accountability for developing  consumption. not
and adopting innovative and sustainable technical solutions and  Finally, ongoing collaboration with local river basin manage- cal 
development models. ment authorities enables us to adopt the most effective shared  ogi
strategies for the sustainable management of hydroelectric  ol
d
generation assets. ho
Further information on how this risk is managed can be found  et
M
in the chapter “Environmental sustainability”.
Social dimension
Risks linked to  The profound transformations of the energy sector, which has  Enel places the people who work for it at the centre of its 
human capital experienced sweeping technological developments, require  business model: the management of human capital is a pri-
the presence of new professional proﬁles and skills, as well as  ority for which speciﬁc objectives have been established. The 
an important cultural and organizational change. Organizations  main goals include: the development of the digital capabilities 
must move to adopt new agile and ﬂexible business models.  and skills made necessary by the Fourth Industrial Revolution,  dix
Policies to enhance diversity and to manage and promote tal- as well as the promotion of reskilling and upskilling programs  n
e
ent have become key factors for companies that are managing  for employees in order to support the energy transition; the  pp
the transition and have a widespread geographical presence. effective involvement of employees in the pursuit of the corpo- & A
rate purpose, which ensures the achievement of better results  d 
n
while offering greater satisfaction to our people; the develop- o
B
ment of systems for evaluating the working environment and  n 
e
performance; the dissemination of diversity and inclusion pol- e
icies to all countries in which the Group operates, as well as  Gr
instilling an inclusive organizational culture based on the prin-
ciples of non-discrimination and equal opportunity, a key driver 
in ensuring that everyone can make an effective contribution. 
In addition, Enel is developing speciﬁc initiatives to foster the 
diffusion of agile working methods in business processes.
Further information on how this risk is managed  can be found 
in the chapter “Our people and their value”.
Sound governance 205