ESG RISK RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES AND MITIGATION ACTIONS
Social dimension
Risks linked to  The main health and safety risks for Enel staff and contracting  Enel has adopted a Declaration of Commitment to Health and 
occupational  companies are associated with the operating activities carried  Safety, signed by the Group’s top management.
health and  out at the Group’s sites and assets. These risks were identiﬁed  To implement the Policy, each of the Group’s Business Lines 
safety  through an analysis of the main events occurring in the past  has its own Occupational Health & Safety Management Sys-
three years. In terms of probability of occurrence, mechanical  tem in compliance with international standard BS OHSAS 
risks (falls, knocks, crushing and cuts) are the most signiﬁcant,  18001, based on identifying hazards, qualitative and quantita-
whilst in terms of associated impact, electrical risks are those  tive risk assessment, planning and implementing preventive 
with the most serious consequences (fatalities). and protective measures, verifying the effectiveness of preven-
Moreover, as a result of the Group’s global presence and glo- tive and protective measures, and any corrective actions to be 
balisation of the company, employees and contractors may  undertaken. This system also considers the rigorous selection 
be exposed to risks relating to emerging infectious diseases,  and management of contractors and vendors, promoting their 
following an epidemic and potentially a pandemic, which may  involvement in continuous safety performance improvement 
affect their health and well-being. programmes.
The Enel Group has deﬁned a structured health management 
system based on preventive measures, to develop a corporate 
culture oriented towards the promotion of mental-physical 
health, organisational well-being and balance between the pro-
fessional and personal spheres.
Furthermore, Enel has implemented a speciﬁc policy on the 
management of critical events, which includes creating speciﬁc 
task forces and guidelines in the event of global health emer-
gencies. This serves to direct, integrate and monitor, both at 
Group and local level, all prevention and intervention actions to 
protect the health of its employees and contractors.
Further information on how this risk is managed can be found 
in the chapter “Occupational health and safety”.
Risks linked Enel currently operates in a vast geographical area, with a pres- A Creating Shared Value (CSV) model has been in force since 
to local  ence in over 30 countries and ﬁve continents. It conducts busi- 2015, which integrates social and environmental factors into 
communities’  ness activities that require the development of infrastructure  company processes and across the entire value chain, particu-
engagement in local areas, which in some cases can cause either criticism  larly in relation to business development, engineering and con-
or partial acceptance. In turn, Enel may be exposed to reputa- struction operations, asset management and maintenance, and 
tional and operational risks due to delays in the execution of  disposals. Through this model, the Group engages proactively 
projects for new sites or risk that may affect the operational  with local communities to identify their main needs, which 
continuity of existing sites. are then integrated into structured action plans, with constant 
On the other hand, Enel’s commitment to decarbonize its en- monitoring of their implementation. 
ergy mix – with a particular focus on the coal mining phase –  Moreover, Enel promotes an inclusive energy transition by 
could have a potential negative impact in local areas which are  way of improvement actions both globally (including public 
heavily dependent on coal operations (extraction and energy  commitments and awareness raising) and at local level, such 
generation) in terms of job losses and socio-economic devel- as the Futur-e programme unrolled in Italy and Spain to ﬁnd 
opment. This could ultimately expose Enel to reputational risks  sustainable solutions (mainly focusing on employment and the 
or even delay the Group’s achievement of the decarbonization  development of economic activities) for the areas affected by 
goals set out in its Strategic Plan. the shift away from coal.
Further information on how this risk is managed can be found 
in the chapter “Communities and value sharing”.
206 Sustainability Report 2019