s
ar
pill
ur 
O
ESG RISK RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES AND MITIGATION ACTIONS
Business and governance dimension
Risks linked  Enel may be exposed to the risk of judicial or administrative  Enel has systems and mechanisms to guarantee a continuous 
to business  sanctions, economic or ﬁnancial losses, or reputational damage  and safe energy supply to the national electrical systems of 
s
continuity as a result of a partial or total interruption of commercial oper- the countries in which it operates. Therefore, Enel is constantly  e
n
ations, technical failures, malfunctions of goods and plants, hu- working to develop and improve the efﬁciency of the distribu- bo
man errors, sabotage, unavailability of raw materials or adverse  tion network, in coordination with the other entities operat- ck
a
weather events, or any emerging infectious diseases resulting  ing on the network infrastructure for various reasons. Enel is  G b
in a potential epidemic or pandemic that may impede the nor- carrying out maintenance on and modernising the network of  S
E
mal functioning of the Group’s activities or supply chain. existing infrastructures in all countries, with the main aim of 
reducing the number and duration of interruptions to service. 
Enel is also constantly adopting operational efﬁciency and safe-
ty measures to ensure the correct functioning of all its power 
plants. Lastly, the Group’s assets are covered by adequate in-
surance mechanisms to protect the Company from potential 
negative economic consequences resulting from future, uncer-
tain events.
Moreover, particularly in relation to the management of critical 
events, Enel has drawn up a policy to ensure the effectiveness 
of the decision-making process when managing any event that 
could compromise the continuity of the public service and the  e
Company’s activity, including global health emergencies. not
Enel is implementing appropriate protocols, plans and actions  cal 
to ensure the smooth running of its economic activity all over  ogi
the world or – where necessary – its rapid recovery in the event  ol
d
of an interruption to service. ho
et
M
Risks  The speed of technological developments that constantly  The Group has adopted a holistic governance approach to cy-
connected with  generate new challenges, the ever increasing frequency and  ber security that is applied to all the sectors of IT (Information 
cyber attacks    intensity of cyber attacks and the attraction of critical infrastruc- Technology), OT (Operational Technology) and IoT (Internet of 
tures and strategic industrial sectors as targets underscore the  Things). The framework is based on the commitment of top 
potential risk that, in extreme cases, the normal operations of  management, on global strategic management, on the involve-
companies could grind to a halt. Cyber attacks have evolved  ment of all business areas as well as on the units involved in 
dramatically in recent years: their number has grown exponen- the design and management of our systems. It seeks to use 
tially, as has their complexity and impact, making it increasingly  cutting edge technologies, to design ad hoc business process-
difﬁcult to promptly identify the source of threats. In the case of  es, to strengthen people’s IT awareness and to implement reg- x
the Enel Group, this exposure reﬂects the many environments  ulatory requirements for IT security. ndi
e
in which it operates (data, industry and people), a circumstance  In addition, the Group has developed an IT risk management  p
p
that accompanies the intrinsic complexity and interconnection  methodology founded on “risk-based” and “cyber security by  A
of the resources that over the years have been increasingly  design” approaches, making business risk analysis the funda- d & 
integrated into the Group’s daily operating processes. mental step in all strategic decisions. Enel has also created its  on
own Cyber Emergency Readiness Team (CERT) in order to pro- n B
actively respond to any IT security incidents. e
e
Finally, in 2019, the Group also took out an insurance policy for  Gr
cyber security risks in order to mitigate IT threats
Further information on how this risk is managed can be found 
in the chapter “Innovation and digitalization”.
Sound governance 207