ESG RISK RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES AND MITIGATION ACTIONS
Business and governance dimension
Risks connected  The Group is carrying out a complete digital transformation  These risks are managed using a series of internal measures 
with  of how it manages the entire energy value chain, developing  developed by the Global Digital Solutions (GDS) unit, which is 
digitalization,  new business models and digitalizing its business processes. A  responsible for guiding the Group’s digital transformation. It 
IT effectiveness  consequence of this digital transformation is that the Group is  has set up an internal control system that introduces control 
and service  increasingly exposed to risks related to the functioning of the IT  points along the entire IT value chain, enabling it to prevent the 
continuity systems implemented throughout the Company, which could  emergence of risks relating to such issues as the creation of 
lead to service interruptions or data losses.   services that do not meet business needs, the failure to imple-
ment adequate security measures and service interruptions. 
The internal control system of the Global Digital Solutions unit 
oversees both the activities performed in-house and those out-
sourced to external associates and service providers. Further-
more, Enel is promoting the dissemination of a digital culture 
and digital skills within the Group in order to successfully guide 
the digital transformation and minimize the associated risks. 
Further information on how this risk is  managed can be found 
in the chapter “Innovation and digitalization”.  
Risks connected  The collection and processing of personal data represents one  In order to manage and mitigate this risk, Enel has adopted 
with the of the biggest challenges in the era of digitalization and global- a structure aimed at guaranteeing that protection of personal 
protection of  ization of markets. The Group has taken up this challenge by ac- data, relating to all persons with whom it interacts, is fully en-
personal data    celerating the digital transformation process while it is experi- sured. This due to the appointment of Data Protection Ofﬁcers 
encing an important stage of global growth in terms of number  (“DPOs”), who are responsible for supporting the business ar-
of customers and geographical areas. This implies an exposure  eas in the adoption of a “privacy by design” approach, in which 
to the risks connected with the protection of personal data, an  the protection of personal data a key element of the design of 
issue that must also take account of the substantial growth  any initiative or business process.
in privacy legislation, whose inappropriate implementation can  Further information on how this risk is managed can be found 
cause economic or ﬁnancial losses and reputational harm.   in the chapter “Sound governance”.
Compliance  Enel may be exposed to the risk of judicial measures or admin- Enel has adopted an Internal Control and Risk Management 
risks istrative sanctions, economic or ﬁnancial losses and reputation- System set out in the company rules and procedures which 
al damage as a result of: all those who work at Enel or for Enel are required to follow 
through their respective contractual commitments. The Internal 
> unlawful conduct, including acts of corruption, by internal  Control System also includes speciﬁc compliance programs, 
staff to obtain an unfair or unlawful beneﬁt. External staff  such as: the Code of Ethics, the Zero Tolerance of Corruption 
of suppliers of Enel Group companies, commit to comply  Plan (“ZTC Plan”), the Human Rights Policy, the Enel Global 
with the ethical clauses set out in their respective contracts,  Compliance Program (“EGCP”), the Model pursuant to Legisla-
which refer to Enel’s commitment to business integrity in  tive Decree 231/01 and other national compliance programmes 
conducting its activities; adopted by the Group companies in compliance with national 
regulations (for example, in Spain, Chile, Brazil, Colombia, Peru, 
> the violation of international or national laws relating to an- Argentina and Mexico). 
titrust, market disclosures, ﬁnancial, tax or other applicable  Furthermore, to further pursue its commitment to ﬁghting 
legislation (such as permitting, purchasing rules, electricity  corruption, Enel voluntarily decided to certify its Anti-Bribery 
market regulation). Management System (SGPC) in compliance with the require-
ments of international standard ISO 37001:2016 on anti-bribery 
management systems. This certiﬁcation process involved the 
Group’s main foreign subsidiaries.
The ongoing monitoring of regulatory developments at national 
and international level is ensured thanks to the operations of 
the relevant company Functions. 
Further information on how this risk is managed can be found 
in the chapter “Sound governance”.
208 Sustainability Report 2019