2020-2022 
Sustainability Plan
Sustainability Report 
Annual Report
of around 74% compared to 2018. At  million second generation smart me-
102-15 the same time, the proportion of re- ters installed.
newables versus total capacity should  The energy transition will be supported 
The adoption of a sustainable and inte- reach 60% in three years, guiding the  also by the development of new servic-
grated business model in 2015 has al- increase in profitability of generation as- es, including an increase in the demand 
lowed Enel to pick up on opportunities  sets and increasing zero CO emission  response (10.1 GW in 2022), installa-
2
in the energy sector linked to global de- generation to 68% by 2022. In the drive  tion of 736 thousand public and pri-
carbonization and electrification trends,  to achieve complete decarbonization  vate charging points for electric ve-
and to take its place alongside the lead- by 2050, Enel has created a roadmap  hicles within the reference three-year 
ers in the energy transition. Thanks to  with interim objectives, certified by the  period, and the development of other 
this  approach,  Enel  today  is  a  more  Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi),  electrification services. 
sustainable, efficient, and remunerative  with a projected reduction of 70% in  In the period 2020-2022, Enel will also 
company, with a significantly lower risk  direct greenhouse gas emissions per  continue  to  adopt  a  platform-based 
profile and greater capacity to adapt rap- kWh  in  2030  with  respect  to  2017  model primarily in networks, in retail 
idly to change. levels, unto reaching 125 g/kWh 1. A  and in Enel X. In networks the use of a 
eq
The  2020-2022  strategy  focuses  on  commitment was also made to reduce  global platform allows the standardisa-
the achievement of the UN Sustainable  Enel’s  indirect  emissions  associated  tion of management and maintenance, 
Development Goals (SDGs) throughout  with the sale of natural gas on the retail  of customer administration processes, 
the entire value chain, placing SDG 13  market by 16% within 2030 compared  and  of  resources  and  systems  allo-
(Action to combat climate change) at  to the 2017 values. cation. Enel is engaged in the retail in 
the centre. Decarbonization of the en- The Plan calls for specific investments  the construction and management of a 
ergy mix, by accelerating the growth of  dedicated to the electrification of con- model based on products and services 
renewable capacity (SDG 7 - Afforda- sumption,  promoting  growth  of  the  rather than on local markets, to aid inno-
ble and clean energy), and the gradual  customer base, and constant increases  vation and efficiency in all countries and 
closure of coal plants, combined with  in efficiency supported by the creation  regions. Enel X adopts the “by design” 
electrification of consumption, will be  of global business platforms.  platform model and develops innovative 
the pillars for the next three-year peri- In consideration of the important role  products and services, also by way of 
od. The enabling factors are infrastruc- of smart infrastructure in a world of  its partners.
ture and networks, in line with SDG 9  completely  decarbonized  energy,  the  The people centricity, a sustainable 
(Industry, innovation and infrastructure),  Plan aims to make the network ever  supply chain, sound governance, oc-
and also ecosystems and platforms, in  more flexible and resilient, by means  cupational health and safety and a 
line with SDG 11 (Sustainable cities and  of investments in digitalization, service  focus on the environment strengthen 
communities).  quality, and efficiency. The 2022 key ob- and complete the Group’s sustainability 
From the operational standpoint, a 14.1  jectives include a projected 9% reduc- strategy, thus contributing to the ac-
GW increase in renewable capacity is  tion in the System Average Interruption  complishment of all 17 of the sustaina-
planned within 2022, reaching around  Frequency Index (SAIFI) and around 29  ble development goals.
60  GW  of  total  managed  capacity,  A high level of attention is devoted to 
mainly due to organic growth, with a  the people working in the Company, 
reduction in global coal generation  1  The 2022 CO emissions target is 220 g/kWh . deemed to be key factors of the strate-
2 eq
20 Sustainability Report 2019