s
ar
pill
ur 
O
The Enel Group’s corporate governance reference model – based on the parent company’s corporate governance 
system, on the corporate governance Recommendations of the Enel Group’s listed companies, as well as on 
several international best practices relating to the composition and functioning of the Board of Directors (“Board”) 
Analysis for each company: – is structured into the following 10 principles:
International best · Local Code of  Valorization of best    1.  The Board: consideration of the interests of all stakeholders and not only those of shareholders; long-term 
practices on boards Corporate Governance practices of each company es
· Local common  vision and shared understanding of the corporate culture and its purpose; a clear distinction of roles between the  on
b
market practices Progressive implementation administrative board and top management; deep understanding of the company’s business and reference market;  ack
Recommendations on corporate Group Corporate · Company’s current  of necessary actions positive atmosphere, trust and a working environment based on listening. G b
governance of Enel Group’s listed  Governance reference corporate governance  S
E
model structure    2.  Board Composition: an appropriate board composition that brings out synergy of individual skills and experience; 
the ideal size of the Board varies from 7 to 11 members, based on the committees to be set up; sufﬁcient diversity 
Enel SpA corporate
governance system Endesa of gender, geographic origin, age and tenure; appropriate presence of truly independent directors, over and above 
Enel Russia compliance with formal criteria, which is especially key in the case of companies subject to management and 
Enel Chile coordination; adequate time availability of directors in line with an ad hoc policy on the maximum number of other 
Enel Américas
ofﬁces they may hold.
Enel Generación Perú
  3.  Induction and Education: implementation of an onboarding programme for newly appointed directors, together 
Enel Distribución Perú
with systematic training plans over the course of their term, addressing strategic, business, risk management, legal  e
Enel Ceará-Coelce ot
n
and sustainability issues. al 
c
  4.  Board Leadership: the key role of the Chair in managing the functioning of the Board, ensuring the conscious and  ogi
ol
d
active participation of each member in the proceedings; separation of the roles of Chair and CEO, ensuring that  o
h
et
their respective responsibilities are complementary and do not overlap; presence of a Senior Independent Director  M
where necessary. 
  5.  Succession Planning: to safeguard the company’s continuity, the Board oversees contingency plans to ensure 
the roles of Chair and CEO are suitably and continually held; veriﬁcation of the presence and effectiveness of top 
management’s succession plans. 
  6.  Board Committees: through their preliminary, proactive and consultative activities on various delicate issues, 
1 2 3 4 5
the Committees provide key support to the Board’s activity, without prejudice to the Board’s decision-making 
x
The Board Board Induction and Board Succession prerogatives on these subjects; opportunities for a broad presence of independent directors in committees; clear  di
Composition Education Leadership Planning en
division of roles between the committees and effective communication between them and the Board; progressive  pp
A
focus of a committee on sustainability issues. d & 
Group corporate   7.  Managing the meetings: at least 9 formal Board meetings per year, supplemented – where possible – with informal  Bon
governance n 
reference model meetings between directors; proper balancing between comprehensive Board documentation and summaries of  ee
Gr
the main topics, with appropriate advance notice given to directors; participation of ﬁrst-line management in relation 
to the issues addressed.
Beyond the Measuring “When things Managing the Board
Boardroom performance go wrong” meetings Committees   8.  “When things go wrong”: mapping of potential, exogenous or endogenous, crisis situations, assessing the risks 
involved and preparing mitigation measures. In the event of actual crisis situations, fast proportionate and reactive 
10 9 8 7 6
interventions accompanied by communicative transparency in relation to their content.
  9. Measuring performance: systematic measurement of the Board’s performance as a whole and each individual 
director’s contribution; aligning the compensation of non-executive directors with the actual commitment 
required. 
 1. 0. Beyond the Boardroom: clear communication of speciﬁc commitments on sustainability issues; transparent and 
timely reporting on the results achieved. Alignment of the Board culture with the company’s strategy. Enel’s strategy 
based on the creation of sustainable value in the long term, taking into account the interests of various stakeholder, 
integrating environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors across the whole value chain.
Sound governance 213