Enel’s presence in the main energy 
and sustainability associations           
102-12 102-13
The Enel Group plays an active role in associations and sus- tion Platform, which comprises the “CFO Taskforce for the 
tainability organisations, at both national and international  SDGs” of which Enel holds the joint presidency. This initia-
level, which set long-term goals and commitments to pro- tive represents an innovative dialogue platform between var-
mote a sustainable way of doing business and to manage  ious Chief Financial Ofﬁcers around the world, with the aim 
the challenges of climate change and socio-economic pres- of promoting sustainable ﬁnance and scalable investments 
sures affecting the macroeconomic environment, particular- to achieve the SDGs. 
ly in the energy sector. Below are some examples. As part of the United Nations programme, Enel is also an 
United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) - Enel has been a  endorsing company of the “Caring for Climate” initiative to 
“Participant” member of the United Nations Global Compact  promote the role of businesses in tackling climate change, 
(UNGC) since 2004 and is one of its 2019 LEAD companies.  and the “CEO Water Mandate”, which was set up to support 
This group of companies represents the participants most  businesses in sustainable water management. Since 2015, 
involved in the initiative, thanks to their commitment and  Enel has been a signatory company of the Women’s Empow-
adherence to the 10 founding principles on human rights,  erment Principles (WEPs) to promote gender equality within 
labour standards, environmental protection and the ﬁght  the private sector, in the workplace, on markets as well as 
against corruption. In 2019, Enel also demonstrated its com- in communities.
mitment by taking part in the Action Platforms “Financial In- CSR Europe - CSR Europe is the European business net-
novation for SDGs”, “Pathways to Low-Carbon and Resilient  work dedicated to sustainability, of which Enel has been 
Development”, “Reporting on the SDGs” and “Peace, Jus- a member since 2005. The Group has held the position of 
tice & Strong Institution”, as well as submitting an advanced  Deputy Chair of the Board since 2016, and in 2019 had its 
Communication on Progress (CoP). term renewed for a further three years. Enel takes part in 
The Group’s leadership – resulting in a strategy and actions  the organisation’s activities, themed meetings and projects 
based on the above principles to achieve the SDGs – also  and, in 2019, it was one of the ﬁrst signatories of the “CEOs 
gave Enel the opportunity to be part of the UN Global Com- Call to Action”, an appeal backed by many Chief Executive Of-
pact Expert Network, an advisory group which provides an  ﬁcers and addressed to the new European political leaders, 
essential strategic contribution to deﬁning the organisation’s  for Europe to become a driver for change by adopting a new 
planning priorities and agenda. Moreover, Enel’s CEO is a  development model in line with the 2030 Agenda objectives. 
member of the Global Compact Board and is currently in  The initiative will lead to the development of the Pact 4 Sus-
his second term (2018-2021). He has therefore renewed his  tainable Industry in 2020 to foster a European industry that is 
commitment to supporting the sustainability initiative which  increasingly climate-neutral, circular and resource-efﬁcient.
has been ongoing since 2015, when he was appointed for  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) - Enel has been a mem-
his ﬁrst term. ber since 2006, and since 2016 it has been part of the GRI 
In 2019, in light of the key importance of climate change at  Community and the Stakeholder Council – the multi-stake-
international level, the Group was among the ﬁrst 28 signa- holder consulting body that supports the GRI Board of Di-
tories of the Business Ambition for 1.5 °C Pledge, where- rectors on strategic issues. On top of its participation in ac-
by it committed to limiting global temperature rise to 1.5 °C  tivities shared among GRI Community members, Enel has 
from pre-industrial levels and achieving zero emissions by  continued its commitment within the Corporate Leadership 
2050. It also pursued its commitment by participating in the  Group on Digital Reporting – a two-year programme focus-
platform.  ing on the main challenges of digitalizing information and 
Furthermore, during 2019, Enel conﬁrmed its commitment  possible solutions for making external reporting more and 
as a sponsor within the “Financial Innovation for SDGs” Ac- more efﬁcient. Importantly, the Group’s work will result in 
214 Sustainability Report 2019