s
ar
pill
ur 
O
the publication of recommendations in 2020 that will serve  the Transforming Urban Mobility project, and the Climate Ac-
to support participants in the area of digital reporting. The  tion & Policy, REscale and SBT4Utilities projects, which are a 
collaboration with GRI has also led Enel to provide its own  key part of the Climate & Energy programme. Enel has also 
support with the translation work into Italian of the GRI Sus- been involved in the Redeﬁning Value programme, becoming 
tainability Reporting Standard (GRI Standard), which was  a member of the Task force on Climate-related Financial Dis-
launched on 30 September 2019. The dissemination of this  closures (TCFD) Electric Utilities Preparer Forum.
Standard has become ever more important in the context  Transparency International - In 2019, Enel renewed its  s
e
n
of the 2030 Agenda – a large and complex system where  commitment to the Business Integrity Forum (BIF), promot- bo
k
c
everyone is expected to contribute towards achieving the  ed by Transparency International Italia. This brings togeth- ba
G 
objectives.  er several large Italian companies interested in developing  S
E
With this in mind, Enel and GRI have decided to further  common projects to enhance business integrity and dis-
strengthen their partnership through an innovative form  seminate best practices to prevent and tackle corruption, as 
of collaboration, to be developed over a two-year period  well as for the beneﬁt of other stakeholders, such as small 
(2019-2020). By pooling their respective skills, they have set  and medium-sized enterprises. Enel helped set up the BIF 
themselves the double objective of analysing whether and  Lab, an event organised in collaboration with the Scuola Su-
how the United Nations 2030 Agenda and SDGs impact the  periore Sant’Anna in Pisa. Enel brought its experience with 
corporate reporting process and how businesses and gov- “Anti-Bribery and Sustainability” and highlighted how the 
e
ernments collaborate to make progress on the SDGs in the  commitment to anti-corruption – a key pillar of compliance  ot
n
various geographical, economic and socio-political contexts.  – is being increasingly integrated within sustainable devel- cal 
gi
o
This analysis will improve and innovate the concept of “part- opment policies.  ol
d
o
nership” itself, in line with SDG 17 – a key element for accel- In 2019, Enel’s Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Francesco Starace,  h
et
M
erating and boosting the private sector’s impact in achieving  accepted the invitation of United Nations Secretary-General 
the 2030 Agenda. António Guterres to join the Global Investors for Sustain-
The ﬁrst phase of the project – which ended in 2019 – took  able Development (GISD) Alliance – a biennial United Na-
the form of two reports following two online debates where  tions initiative that aims to identify new ways of promoting 
Enel and GRI engaged a multi-stakeholder audience to spark  long-term investments for sustainable development. The 
a discussion, with the aim of: Alliance is an integral part of the United Nations Strategy 
>  delving into the role played up until now by reporting  for Financing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 
x
di
and partnerships in driving change in the private sector  and is made up of 30 global business leaders working to- en
p
p
to achieve the SDGs; gether to unlock the funding needed to achieve the SDGs  A
& 
>  gaining an overview of the actions to be taken to ensure  and kick-start social, economic and environmental improve- d 
n
o
that the SDG reporting can stimulate the development  ment across the world.  n B
e
of new partnerships and new business models. The Company has also continued to pursue its commitment  Gre
The second and ﬁnal phase of the collaboration – which is to  to Sustainable Energy for All (SEforALL), an international 
be completed at the end of 2020 – is based on the results  non-proﬁt organisation which collaborates with the private 
of the two debates and aims to open up dialogue at region- sector, civil society, institutions and governments to support 
al-level focusing on strengthening the role of the SDGs. the Sustainable Development Goal on energy (SDG 7). This 
World Business Council for Sustainable Development  commitments comes under the Multi-stakeholder plat-
(WBCSD) - Since 2016, Enel has been a member of the  form on SDGs – the European Commission initiative with a 
WBCSD, an international network of around 200 companies  two-year term (2017-2019) which aims to support and guide 
committed to environmental protection and to the principles  the Commission in achieving the United Nations Sustainable 
of sustainable development and economic growth. Enel’s  Development Goals at European level. Lastly, since 2016, 
CEO is a member of the Committee and the Company is  Enel has been a member of the International Integrated 
also represented by a Liaison Delegate. Enel plays an active- Reporting Council (IIRC) and the Sustainable Business 
ly part in the various programmes and working groups cover- Roundtable (SBRT). 
ing different areas of interest. In 2019, the Group maintained  Further information can be found in the chapters “At a Glance” 
its support for the Factor10 project on the circular economy,  and “Commitment to the ﬁght against climate change”.
Sound governance 215