Transparency in institutional processes
Enel constantly manages relations with institutions (local, 
national, European and international), in line with the Enel 
Compliance Program, providing complete and transparent 
information with the aim of giving institutional counterparts 
the  best  conditions  to  make  the  decisions  they  are 
responsible for. Enel also contributes to the consultation 
processes regarding political and legislative dossiers on 
energy and environmental issues. In the context of relations 
with European institutions, Enel actively contributes to every 
phase of the consultation process on political and legislative 
dossiers of corporate interest through careful monitoring 
and analysis (see also the chapter “Commitment to the ﬁght 
against climate change”). 
The Enel Group has been registered in the EU voluntary 
transparency register since its creation in 2008. The register 
aims to provide citizens with a single and direct access 
point to information on who carries out activities aimed at 
inﬂuencing the EU decision-making process, the interests 
pursued and the resources invested in these activities (http://
ec.europa.eu/transparencyregister/public/homePage.do). 
In line with the provisions of the Code of Ethics, paragraph 
3.26, Enel does not provide ﬁnance to political parties, their 
representatives or candidates in Italy or abroad, nor does 
it sponsor conventions or parties whose sole purpose is  terms of overall amount came from AELEC (Asociación de 
political propaganda. It refrains from any direct or indirect  empresas de energía eléctrica) in Spain, then Conﬁndustria 
pressure on politicians (for example, by granting the use  and Elettricità Futura in Italy8.
of its facilities, accepting recruiting recommendations, or  The  institutional  dialogue  with  the  trade  and  employer 
consultancy contracts). Enel and its subsidiaries are present  associations in which Enel and its subsidiaries took part in 
in  various  trade  and  employer  associations  whose  role  2019 concerned the support of regulatory and consultation 
includes representing the positioning of its members in the  processes, among others, on the following main issues:
regulatory processes pertaining to the business activity.  >  development  of  energy  policies:  including,  among 
The  annual  contributions  paid  to  the  above-mentioned  other topics, the strategic outlook of the sector, energy 
organisations in the form of membership fees in 2019 totalled  efﬁciency,  the  growth  of  renewables,  smart  grid 
approximately 7.9 million euros6, which is 6% less than in  development and energy costs9;
20187. In particular, in 2019 the three largest contributions in  >  increasing business competitiveness: including, among 
other  topics,  tax  regulation,  labour  law  issues  and 
environmental policies10.
6 The annual contributions over the past four years are as follows: 7.8 million 
in 2019; 8.3 million euros in 2018; 9 million euros in 2017; 9 million euros in 
2016. These ﬁgures include the contributions paid by Enel SpA (including 
8 Speciﬁcally: AELEC (formerly “UNESA”) 1.9 million euros; Conﬁndustria 
the main companies in Italy) and by its foreign subsidiaries Endesa, Enel 
1.8 million euros; Elettricità Futura (formerly “Associazione Nazionale delle 
Américas and Enel Chile.
Imprese Elettriche”) 0.7 million euros.
7 These ﬁgures include the contributions paid by Enel SpA (including the 
9 The contribution in 2019 was 5 million euros.
main companies in Italy) and by its foreign subsidiaries Endesa, Enel 
Américas and Enel Chile. 10 The contribution in 2019 was 2.8 million euros.
216 Sustainability Report 2019