s
ar
pill
ur 
O
Transparency in institutional processes Tax transparency
Enel is an industrial group whose main activity involves  interpreting them in a way that respects both the substance 
electricity generation, distribution and sales. The choice of  and form.
countries where the Group operates is guided by business  Tone at the top: the Board of Directors has the role and  s
e
n
choices and not by tax reasons.   responsibility of leading the dissemination of a corporate  bo
k
c
culture based on the values of honesty and integrity and  a
b
G 
the principle of legality. S
E
Tax strategy
Transparency:  the  Group  maintains  collaborative  and 
transparent relations with tax authorities, enabling them – 
Since 2017, the Enel Group has adopted a tax strategy,  among other things – to gain a full understanding of the facts 
as a set of principles and guidelines inspired by values    underlying the application of tax rules. 
of transparency and legality, which is published on the  Shareholder value: The Group considers taxes as a business 
website:  www.enel.com.  The  Group’s  subsidiaries  are  cost and, as such, believes that it must be managed in 
required to adopt the tax strategy approved by the parent  compliance with the principle of legality, with the aim of 
e
company, thereby assuming the responsibility of ensuring it  safeguarding the Group’s assets and pursuing the primary  ot
n
is acknowledged and applied. interest of creating value for shareholders in the medium to  cal 
gi
long term. olo
d
o
h
et
Tax strategy objectives M
Governance
Enel SpA’s Board of Directors sets out the tax strategy 
of the entire Group, with the aim of ensuring uniform 
tax management for all entities involved. The strategy is  Enel SpA ensures that the tax strategy is acknowledged and 
underpinned by the following approach: applied within the company through the governance bodies. 
>  correct  and  timely  determination  and  settlement  of  Its interpretation is left to the parent company, through the 
taxes due under the law and implementation of the  Tax unit, which also manages its periodic updates.
x
di
respective obligations; n
e
p
>  correct management of the tax risk, which is the risk  Ap
Compliance & 
incurred for the violation of tax rules or abuse of the  d 
n
o
principles and purposes of the tax system. n B
e
The Group entities must respect the principle of legality,  Gre
applying the tax laws of the countries where the Group 
Tax strategy principles
operates, to ensure that the wording, spirit and purpose of 
The tax strategy principles are the guidelines for Group  the applicable tax rule or system is respected. Moreover, 
companies,  underpinning  their  business  operations  the Enel Group does not undertake behaviours or domestic 
when  managing  the  ﬁscal  variable. The  principles  also  or  cross-border  operations  that  result  in  purely  artiﬁcial 
require suitable processes to be adopted to ensure their  constructions, that do not reﬂect the economic reality and 
effectiveness and application. from which it is reasonable to expect undue tax advantages, 
Values: in line with its sustainability strategy, the Group acts  where they conﬂict with the purpose or spirit of tax provisions 
in accordance with the values of honesty and integrity in  or system in question and give rise to double deduction, 
its tax management, being aware that tax revenue is one  deduction/non-inclusion  or  double  non-taxation,  including 
of the main sources of contribution to economic and social  as a result of any divergence between the tax systems of 
development of the countries in where it operates. different jurisdictions.
Legality:  the  Group  pursues  behaviour  geared  towards 
compliance with the applicable tax rules and is committed to 
Sound governance 217