Intercompany transactions Tax governance, control 
For tax purposes, intercompany transactions are regulated in  and risk management  
accordance with the arm’s length principle – described in the 
OECD’s Model Tax Convention and Transfer Pricing Guidelines 
Governance body  
– with the aim of aligning, as correctly as possible, transfer 
pricing and conditions with the places of value creation  In Enel’s organisational model, the Holding Company’s Tax 
within the Group. In order to minimise tax risks, and in line  Affairs unit is tasked – among other things – with developing 
with the applicable regulations, the Enel Group encourages  the Group’s tax strategy, identifying, analysing and managing 
the signing of rulings (Advance Pricing Agreements – APAs)  the various optimisation initiatives, monitoring the key tax is-
with the local tax authorities on establishing transfer pricing  sues and providing its support to the various Business Lines. 
determination methods, on attributing proﬁts and losses to  Alongside the Holding Function, the Tax Affairs units of the 
permanent establishments and on applying rules on cross- various countries – acting in accordance with the values and 
border ﬂows between Group entities. principles of the tax strategy set out by the holding company 
– are responsible for managing compliance, tax planning and 
Low-tax jurisdictions
tax monitoring at local level.
The Group does not invest in – or through – countries 
Organisation
considered to be tax havens for the sole purpose of reducing 
its tax burden. Such investments may only be proposed if  The Enel Group has adopted a set of rules, procedures and 
they are supported by sound economic/strategic reasons  standards which are part of the Group’s wider organisation 
and have the aim of developing the activities included in the  and control system and which are considered key points 
Group’s corporate purpose. of reference that all parties, depending on their type of 
If, in circumstantial situations (for example, in the event of  relationship with the Group, are required to observe11. The 
third-party purchases of a group of companies), structures  various policies and procedures applicable both at Group 
were found to be have been created for the sole purpose of  level and country level regulate the activities, as well as their 
reducing the tax burden or in areas deemed to be tax havens,  management  procedures  and Tax  Affairs  responsibilities 
the Group – failing any sound economic/strategic reasons  including in relation to other corporate Functions. These 
other than mere tax savings – will commit to removing such  documents are published on the company Intranet and are 
structures as quickly as possible. accessible to all Enel people; they form the general rules 
of conduct applicable within the Group when carrying out 
Tax incentives
activities. Speciﬁcally in relation to taxation, in addition to the 
Tax incentives are a key, development-oriented mechanism  tax strategy there are speciﬁc organisational documents – 
for economic policy, which countries use to stimulate growth  both at global and local level – regarding the processes of Tax 
and attract investment to support the national policy. The  Compliance, Tax Planning, Tax Monitoring, Transfer Pricing 
use of tax incentives generally results in a reduction of long- and Tax Risk Management.
term tax liabilities. Some countries where the Enel Group  The general principle is that the Tax units must be the 
operates  offer  various  incentives. The  Enel  Group  uses  appropriate size and equipped with the necessary skills to 
widely applicable tax incentives for all operators, respecting  perform the role of a decision-making analysis centre within 
all speciﬁc regulations, where the incentives are in line with  the governance and business processes, in addition to the 
its industrial and operational objectives and are consistent  role of overseeing compliance performance. For this purpose, 
with the economic substance of its investments. speciﬁc and ongoing training initiatives on tax issues at both 
11 For example: Code of Ethics; Zero Tolerance of Corruption Plan; Enel Global 
Compliance Program (EGCP), corporate policies, models and procedures; 
the Tax Strategy; the Internal Control and Risk Management System; 
the proxy power of attorney system; the sanctions system referred to 
in the applicable CCNL; any other documentation relating to the current 
control systems; the relevant accounting standards; IT procedures and IT 
applications.
218 Sustainability Report 2019