s
ar
pill
ur 
O
s
e
n
o
b
k
c
a
b
G 
S
E
e
ot
n
al 
c
gi
o
country and global level are set up, with recurring meetings  a broad spectrum of control. As such, any materialisation of  dol
o
h
between all of the Group’s Tax Managers in order to ensure  the tax risk can be intercepted and managed by each relevant  et
M
the appropriate alignment. Tax unit. The effectiveness and ongoing updates of the TCF 
are ensured through periodic monitoring of the risk mapping, 
regular internal audit processes, as well as through the tax 
Tax risks  
authority systems set out under cooperative compliance 
The Group has a Tax Control Framework (TCF) whose main 
regimes (where implemented).
aim is to provide the Tax units with a single and consistent 
set of guidance for adopting a correct and effective approach 
Mechanism for reports  dix
to tax risk management within the Group. The framework  n
e
p
sets  out  guidelines  and  methodological  rules  so  as  to  by stakeholders   Ap
& 
consistently  assess,  monitor  and  manage  the  relevant  For the Enel Group, tax compliance is considered a key aspect  d 
n
o
tax risk for the Group companies, in accordance with the  of the Company’s ethical and responsible management.  n B
e
principles and guidelines set out by the tax strategy, and  As such, the violations that can be reported through the  Gre
in the awareness that the Group companies operating in  Company’s internal channels also include those relating to 
different jurisdictions must adopt the TCF with respect for  tax. The Group’s Code of Ethics is the framework of “ethical 
the speciﬁc societal context and domestic regulations of  management” which Enel operates, also tying in fully with 
the individual countries in question. In accordance with the  the tax strategy. There are appropriate provisions on Code of 
principles and guidelines set out in the tax strategy, the Enel  Ethics violations to ensure its effective implementation, and 
Group aims to proactively manage the tax risk and believes  these requirements must also be considered to cover the 
that adopting a TCF can ensure the timely detection, correct  provisions of the tax strategy.
measurement and control of the risk tax. The task of the 
TCF is to identify the sources of tax risk for the purpose of 
compliance and interpreting tax regulations, while mapping 
out the respective processes and activities in order to form a 
network of risk detectors, to be associated with the resulting 
control measures. In particular, as the set of detectors and 
control measures identify sources of risk, the TCF can provide 
Sound governance 219