Transparent relationship  at  Enel  (https://www.enel.com/investors/sustainability-
performance)  and  underlines  the  importance  the  Group 
with stakeholders  
places on tax issues, their social role and transparency in 
general, as a driver of sustainable development.
The Enel Group ensures transparency and fairness in its re- The comparative analysis of the 2019 and 2018 data revealed 
lations with tax authorities, in the event of audits on both  an increase in 2019 of the Total Tax Borne for a total of 
the Group companies and third parties. To consolidate this  144.5 million euros (+3.1%), and essentially: 1) the increase 
transparency with tax authorities, the Enel Group promotes  in income taxes in Spain and Russia, amounting to 90 and 
engagement in co-operative compliance schemes for com- 22 million euros respectively due to the higher advances 
panies that integrate the requirements of their respective  amounts paid in 2019 and lower tax credits offset by the 
domestic regulations in order to reinforce their relations. It  two countries in the same year, and Mexico, amounting 
also complies with the transfer pricing documentation provi- to 73 million euros due to the one-off payment of taxes 
sions in accordance with OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines  on extraordinary transactions; 2) the increase in taxes on 
(the “three-tiered approach” consisting into Master File, Lo- products and services in Brazil amounting to 85 million 
cal File and Country-by-Country Report). Moreover, to avoid  euros for the payment of PIS and Coﬁns on revenue that 
double taxation, the Group promotes mutual agreement  increased by around 2,000 million euros in the country from 
procedures for the settlement of international disputes (Mu- 2018 to 2019. These increases – totalling 270 million euros – 
tual Agreement Procedure – MAP), which have the direct in- are partly offset by the environmental tax reduction in Spain 
volvement of tax authorities from the contracting countries. totalling 106 million euros, essentially due to the following 
Lastly, Enel consistently acts with a transparent and collabo- factors: reduction of the tax on hydrocarbons in electricity 
rative approach with all institutions and associations to sup- generation and general tax reduction on coal and on the 
port the development of effective tax systems in the various  electricity generation value as a result of the suspension/
countries where it operates. closure of coal power plants. 
In 2019, Enel joined the European Business Tax Forum (EBTF  With regard to the Total Tax Collected, the increase in 2019 
– https://ebtforum.org), an association that aims to open up  totalling 236 million euros (+1.7%) was essentially the result 
a public debate on taxation by providing a balanced and  of: 1) the increase in taxes on products and services in Bra-
comprehensive perspective of the tax paid by companies.  zil, Chile, Peru and Russia, totalling 286 million euros, due 
In view of this objective, tax information is provided to the  to the general increase in revenues in the various countries, 
various stakeholders. The EBTF has been operating since  partially offset by the reduction of these taxes in Italy total-
2017 as an informal non-proﬁt initiative by a group of multina- ling 85 million euros, mainly due to the reduction of taxes on 
tionals based in the EU and European Free Trade Association  sales to end customers gas and electricity; 2) the increase 
(EFTA) in order to develop a long-term and high-value strate- in taxes on labour, mainly in Italy and Spain amounting to 15 
gy for companies playing an active role in the public debate  and 24 million euros respectively.
on taxation. In 2018 and 2019, the Forum underwent a major  Lastly, the TTC index rose from 38.4% in 2018 to 64.7% in 
expansion and gave rise to the EU/EFTA Total Tax Contribu- 2019; this 26.2% variation is almost exclusively the result of 
tion Study. The study is available on the association’s website  the reduction of Earnings Before Tax (EBT) in 2019 – totalling 
and reports aggregate data for the various types of tax paid  4,710 million euros – mainly associated with the impairment 
by the major European multinational companies by revenue  of several coal plants in Italy, Spain, Chile and Russia as part 
and/or market capitalisation. of the Group’s decarbonization process. As this impairment 
is not immediately tax deductible, it did not have a correlated 
impact on the reduction of income taxes paid in 2019.
Reporting
The table below shows information relating to the overall tax 
contribution for 2019 in the main countries where the Enel 
As  of  2018  (2018-2017),  Enel  has  adopted  a Total Tax  Group operates (TTC 2019).
Contribution model for Italy and the main countries where 
it  operates,  providing  evidence  of  the  taxes  paid  and 
withheld. The 2019 document (2019 and 2018) is available 
220 Sustainability Report 2019