Values and pillars of company ethics
102-12 102-15 102-16 102-17 102-25 102-33 103-2 103-3 205-2
205-3 405-1 406-1 408-1 409-1 412-1  412-2 413-1
The  Enel  Group’s  activities  are  supported  by  a  sound 
ethical foundation: its constantly evolving nature is aimed 
at incorporating best practices at national and international 
level. Everyone who works at Enel and for Enel must respect 
and apply these practices in their daily activities. This system 
is based on speciﬁc compliance programmes, such as: the 
Code of Ethics, Human Rights Policy, Zero Tolerance of 
Corruption Plan (ZTC Plan), Enel Global Compliance Program 
(EGCP), Model pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 231/01 
and other national compliance models that may be adopted 
by Group companies in accordance with local regulations.
Code of Ethics
several international references on human rights and to align 
the tasks of the units responsible for the update with the 
In 2002, Enel adopted its Code of Ethics, which expresses  current organisational structure.
the  commitments  and  ethical  responsibilities  it  follows 
in  conducting  business,  by  regulating  and  harmonising  Reports 
corporate conduct according to standards based on the 
by stakeholders
utmost transparency and integrity towards all stakeholders. 
The Code of Ethics is valid both in Italy and abroad, while 
taking into account the cultural, social and economic diversity  Any  violation  or  suspected  violation  of  Enel  Compli-
of the various countries where Enel operates. Speciﬁcally,  ance Programs can be reported, including anonymously, 
the document is divided into: through a single platform at Group level (“Ethics Point”), 
>  general principles for stakeholder relations, which deﬁne  which is accessible at the following address: www.enel.
the values that the Group uses as inspiration in carrying  ethicspoint.com.
out its various activities; Reports can also be sent by e-mail or regular mail. The Au-
>  criteria of conduct towards each class of stakeholders,  dit Function receives and analyses these reports, perform-
which provide the guidelines and standards that Enel peo- ing the related checks and ensuring uniform treatment at 
ple are required to follow to ensure compliance with the  Group level, in compliance with company policies and lo-
general principles and to prevent the risk of unethical con- cal regulations.
duct; The  report  management  process  is  governed  by  the 
>  implementation mechanisms that describe the control sys- whistleblowing policy, “Management of anonymous and 
tem designed to ensure compliance with the Code and  non-anonymous reports”, which reiterates the guarantee 
its continuous improvement. Enel also requires that all  of anonymity and protection against any form of retalia-
afﬁliates and subsidiary companies, main suppliers and  tion and also ensures adequate protection against ground-
partners adopt ethical behaviour in line with the Code’s  less reports made in bad faith for the purpose of harming 
general principles. people and/or companies. 
In 2019, the Code was updated in order to incorporate   
224 Sustainability Report 2019