tions on corporate responsibility (the “Compliance Pro-
gram”) in the various countries where the Group operates 
(for example, Organisational Model 231 for Italian compa-
nies, the “Risk Prevention Model/Integrity Program” for 
Group companies in Spain and South America);
>  the Enel Global Compliance Program (“EGCP”), a govern-
ance tool aimed at strengthening the Group’s ethical 
and professional commitment to preventing offences 
committed outside of Italy that might result in corporate 
criminal responsibility and risks to reputation. The EGCP 
applies to the Group’s non-Italian companies and sup-
plements any compliance programmes adopted by the 
same companies, in compliance with local regulations.
Without prejudice to the provisions of these compliance pro-
grammes and the speciﬁc regulatory provisions applicable  ing to the international standard ISO 37001:2016 on anti-brib-
to the crime of corruption in all its forms, the Enel Global  ery management systems. The certiﬁcation was conﬁrmed 
Compliance Program complies with the main relevant legis- in successive maintenance checks in the course of 2018 
lation and best corporate governance practices, constituting  and 2019 respectively. The certiﬁcation is scheduled to be 
the general conduct framework for Enel people in the ﬁght  renewed in 2020.
against corruption. After Enel SpA obtained certiﬁcation ISO 37001 for its an-
The areas with the most potential exposure to corruption (ac- ti-bribery management system, it gradually extended the 
tive and/or passive), both in relations with public administra- ISO 37001 certiﬁcation plan to the Group’s main Italian and 
tions and in the private sector, include: (i) the negotiation and  foreign subsidiaries. At present, the certiﬁcation progress 
execution of contracts with third parties (public authorities,  has been successfully completed, speciﬁcally for Enel Green 
associations, companies, etc.); (ii) participation in tenders  Power SpA (also covering some of its foreign subsidiaries), 
(public and private); (iii) selection of partners/consultants; (iv)  Enel Global Trading SpA, Enel Produzione SpA, E-Distribuzi-
management of ﬁnancial resources; (v) management of gifts  one SpA, Enel Italia Srl, Enel Sole Srl, Enel.si Srl, Enel Ener-
and hospitality; (vi) personnel recruitment processes; (vii) in- gia SpA, Servizio Elettrico Nazionale SpA, Enel X Srl, Enel X 
centive mechanisms in top managers’ compensation. Italia SpA, Enel Global Infrastructure & Networks Srl, and for 
In relation to these risk areas, the above governance tools  the Group’s foreign companies, for Endesa SA, Enel Améri-
(ZTC Plan, Code of Ethics and the EGCP/Compliance Pro- cas SA, Enel Generación Chile SA, Enel Chile SA, Edesur SA, 
gram) – together with the current body of procedures – set  Codensa SA, Emgesa SA, Enel Distribución Perú SA, Enel 
out an effective prevention system, which is an integral part  Generación Peru SA, the companies operating in Romania.
of the Group’s Internal Control System. From an organisa- During the 2020-2021 two-year period, the anti-bribery cer-
tional perspective, the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, in exercising  tiﬁcation process in accordance with ISO 37001 is due to be 
his/her powers, represents Enel SpA’s Governing Body pur- further extended to other Italian and foreign companies of 
suant to the standard ISO 37001; Top Management, on the  the Group, in light of the current corporate scope during the 
other hand, is represented by the Head of the Company’s  period in question.
Audit Function and Head of the Legal & Corporate Affairs  The role of Enel SpA’s “Anti-bribery compliance function” – 
Function – both of whom report directly to the Chief Exec- set up pursuant to the ISO 37001:2016 standard – has been 
utive Ofﬁcer.  entrusted to an internal corporate body, made up of a repre-
Top Management, in performing its duties, makes use of all  sentative from the following Functions: Legal & Corporate 
necessary resources and the collaboration of the other re- Affairs, Audit, People & Organization (Quality unit). The body 
sponsible Departments heads, who also report directly to  is tasked – among other things – with overseeing the Com-
the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer (for example, People & Organisa- pany’s planning and implementation of its anti-bribery man-
tion, Communications). agement system.
On May 8, 2017, Enel SpA’s ABMS was certiﬁed as conform-
226 Sustainability Report 2019