s
ar
pill
ur 
O
Human rights Labour practices:  
1. Rejection of forced or compulsory labour and child labour; 
2. Respect for diversity and non-discrimination; 
103-2 103-3 407-1 408-1
409-1 411-1 412-1 413-1 3. Freedom of association and collective bargaining; 
4. Health and safety; 
Since 2011, the “United Nations Guiding Principles on Busi- s
5. Fair and favourable working conditions;  ne
ness and Human Rights” (UNGPs) have been a key point  bo
k
c
of reference for companies to evaluate their management  Relations with communities and society:  ba
G 
systems and respective impacts on human rights, assuming  1. Respect for community rights;  ES
direct responsibility for them.
2. Integrity: zero tolerance of corruption; 
In particular, the guiding principles on companies set out the 
3. Privacy and communication.
following framework:
The principles set out in the policy have been inspired by 
the content of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 
the European Convention on Human Rights and several 
Protect
International  Labour  Organization  (ILO)  conventions  on 
Safeguarding human rights through appropriate e
human and social rights, freedom of association and the  ot
policies and rules n
right to organise, prohibition of forced and child labour, and  cal 
gi
o
Respect occupational health and safety. dol
o
The policy assigns the Innovability Function the following  h
Companies must “know and show” Met
tasks:  planning  and  coordinating  the  adoption  of  due 
their impacts on human rights
and the measures to mitigate and correct them diligence process12 jointly with the other relevant Functions, 
for  their  respective  areas  of  competence;  reporting  to 
Remedy
the  Control  and  Risks  Committee  on  the  development 
Companies must implement remedial actions
of the due diligence process; annually reporting on Enel’s 
through judicial and non-judicial system
performance regarding its commitments to human rights 
as part of the Group’s Sustainability Report. In particular, 
x
di
within the Innovability Function, the Sustainability Planning  en
p
Protect p
and Performance Management unit has been tasked with  A
& 
On 5 February 2013, Enel passed resolution to accept the  managing the positioning on human rights and respective  d 
n
o
United Nations’ “Protect, Respect, Remedy” framework  internal and external disclosure on activities, as well as  n B
e
by approval of the Board of Directors – both of the Parent  integrating the human rights policy into corporate processes  Gre
Company and each subsidiary – of a human rights policy  and ensuring the performance of due diligence activities. 
that strengthens and deepens the commitments already es- Moreover, a speciﬁc focal point at global level was also 
tablished by company Compliance Programmes. The policy  appointed  within  this  unit  to  coordinate  human  rights 
was drawn up through a consultation process that involved  activities, to be coordinated by the various Sustainability 
the Enel people and major international experts. It identiﬁes  Managers at country level.
eight principles that the people working in Enel SpA and its 
subsidiaries must observe in carrying out all their activities. 
Furthermore, it promotes respect of all principles within its 
business relationships and compliance with the same stand-
ards by its contractors, suppliers and business partners, with  12 In the context of the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights 
(Principles 17-21), this term refers to a continuous management system 
a particular focus on conﬂict-affected and high-risk contexts.
implemented by a company considering the sector in which it operates, 
The policy concerns two overarching issues: labour practices  its operating contexts and the size of the company, among other things, 
to ensure respect for human rights or to avoid being party to their abuse. 
and relations with communities and society. This policy is 
This implies “identifying, preventing, mitigating and reporting” potentially 
available online at www.enel.com. negative effects caused by the company.
Sound governance 227