s
ar
pill
ur 
O
Below is a summary table of the issues set out by the policy,  three years to verify the progress of the improvement plans 
indicating the relative assessment of the perceived risk and  as and when they are established. During 2020, the new 
their level of coverage. assessment cycle will start, which will follow that conducted 
The ﬂow described above was formalised in an internal  between 2017 and 2019.
procedure, and includes process assessment cycles every 
s
e
n
o
SYSTEM TO PROTECT  MAIN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES  b
TOPICS AVERAGE PERCEIVED RISK  ck
HUMAN RIGHTS TO PROTECT HUMAN RIGHTS a
b
G 
S
E
Labor practices
Freedom of association and  Acceptable risk Robust Enel commits to respecting freedom of association 
collective bargaining and collective bargaining for all its workers. In particu-
lar, Enel recognizes their right to form or take part in 
organizations aimed at defending and promoting their 
interests; that they are represented by trade unions 
or other forms of representation; and the value of col-
lective bargaining as a privileged tool for determining 
contractual conditions and governing relations be-
e
tween company management and trade unions. ot
n
al 
c
Rejection of forced labor Acceptable risk Robust The contracts govern working conditions in their en- ogi
tirety and clearly show all the terms included in the  dol
o
Fair and favorable working  Acceptable risk Robust contracts that provide details on the rights of work- eth
conditions ers (working hours, salary, overtime, compensations,  M
benefits).
The terms are translated into workers’ native lan-
Rejection of child labor Risk to be monitored Robust
guages and are supported with information contained 
in documents shared with the people.
Human resources management systems and proce-
dures ensure there are no minors in the workforce. 
Internships and school-to-work programs are also 
available.
x
di
Diversity and inclusion Risk to be monitored Robust For details, see the chapter “Our people and their  en
p
value”. p
A
& 
d 
Health and safety Risk to be monitored Robust For details, see the chapter “Occupational health and  on
B
safety” n 
e
e
Gr
Community and society
Community relations Risk to be monitored Robust For details, see the chapter “Communities and value 
sharing”.
Environmental impacts High priority risk Robust For details see the chapter “Environmental sustaina-
bility”.
Corruption High priority risk Robust For details, see the paragraph “Active and passive 
anti- corruption management system”.
Average perceived risk: average of perceived risk levels identified in the countries being analyzed.
Risk reference scale: 1. High risk; 2. High priority risk; 3. Risk to be monitored; 4. Acceptable risk.
Performance value reference scale of the system (processes, policies and procedures) to protect human rights: Robust (R) (75%-100%); Good (B) (50%-75%); 
Sufficient (S) (25%-50%); Needs improvement (M) (0%-25%).
Sound governance 229