Data protection
103-2 103-3 418-1
The protection and processing of personal data is a major  processes and activities in accordance with the GDPR and 
challenge in the age of digitalization and market globalisation  commits to support data ofﬁcers in drawing up data protec-
in terms of responsibility when managing data, but it is also  tion agreements and clauses; planning data governance and 
an opportunity to improve the service that Group companies  corporate policies; providing privacy consulting in the design 
provide. To rise to this challenge and in line with the new  and default phase; ensuring adequate risk management by 
General Data Protection Regulation EU 2016/679 (GDPR),  making wide use of the DPIA and monitoring the consisten-
the Enel Group adopted a structure in 2017 to ensure that  cy of data protection policies within the organisation, particu-
the privacy of all natural persons with whom it interacts is  larly between legal entities within and outside Europe.
fully respected. Speciﬁcally, the Legal Function contains a  Moreover, the Audit Function carries out continuous moni-
Data Protection Ofﬁce, which has assigned “Data Protection  toring of the GDPR’s implementation, in collaboration with 
Ofﬁcers” (or DPOs). DPOs are appointed based on their pro- data protection ofﬁcers, in order to track the progress of the 
fessional skills, knowledge and their ability to perform tasks  efforts to align the companies’ processes and tools with the 
in accordance with the principle of independence.  GDPR. Activities are also planned to analyse security meas-
The Data Protection Ofﬁce is structured as follows: ures on systems that contain data relevant to the GDPR, 
>  Governance Data Protection: This monitors changes  commercially sensitive data (Distribution and Market) and 
to legislation on data protection and determines the  employee data managed in human resources procedures, 
Group’s compliance;  including in different geographical areas outside of the scope 
>  Global  Service  Functions  and  Holding  Functions  of the GDPR.
Data Protection: This promotes privacy from the outset  In 2019, the Group’s European companies handled over 
of planning processes at global level and ensures con- 40,000 communications relating to personal data protection 
sistent development at national level;  and have collaborated with national authorities, having re-
>  Global Business Lines Data Protection: This supports  ceived 79 requests for information and clariﬁcation. In Italy, 
Global Business Lines in accordance with data protec- E-Distribuzione previously reported one incident relating to 
tion, and monitors changes to data protection certiﬁca- personal data and one data breach to the Authority for the 
tion mechanisms for products and services;  Protection of Personal Data. In Romania, two data breaches 
>  Country units for the protection of national data (Ita- were registered, formally notiﬁed to the competent Authori-
ly, Portugal, Romania, Spain): These monitor changes to  ty, which involved the market companies (Enel Energie Mun-
data protection legislation at country level. tenia and Enel Energie SA) and the distribution companies 
The Data Protection Ofﬁce has also developed internal tools  (E-Distribuție Muntenia, E-Distribuție Dobrogea and E-Dis-
based on Enel’s size and complexity to ensure compliance  tribuție Banat).
with the protection and optimal use of data to support Enel’s  Lastly, promoting a responsible and proactive approach to 
presence in the European data economy. Some of these  incorporate privacy right from the planning stage of pro-
tools include: Personal data processing logs and the Data  cesses, corporate services and activities, a speciﬁc train-
Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA). The DPO implements  ing course has been set up for the people working at Enel.
232 Sustainability Report 2019