s
ar
pill
ur 
O
This process is aligned with the AA1000APS standard and 
responds  to  the  principles  of  Inclusivity,  Materiality  and 
Responsiveness.
Data collection, aggregation and processing of information are 
managed using a dedicated IT system that is upgraded each 
year to ensure increasing traceability, share best practices for 
stakeholder engagement and monitoring and permit a degree  s
e
n
o
of coverage consistent with the company’s organizational  b
k
c
model. The system allows specific views to be obtained, not  ba
G 
only at the level of the Group and individual companies, but  ES
also by Business Line/Company Function and individual asset 
(i.e., potential or actual operating site).
The  Holding’s  Sustainability  Planning  and  Performance 
Management unit plays a guidance and coordination role, 
providing  guidelines  and  methodological  support  for  the 
analysis conducted by the local personnel with the involvement  The scope of the materiality analysis for 2019 has been 
of the stakeholders and key people at the company level. The  further expanded to include the new “Enel X” Business 
e
results achieved at the level of the individual company and/ Line, together with increasing integration of the results of the  not
al 
or country are then consolidated by the Holding Company  application of CSV tools to the Group’s assets. In particular,  gic
o
to prepare the Group’s materiality matrix (see the section of  in 2019 the analysis extended to 310 engagement initiatives,  ol
d
o
the “At a Glance” chapter entitled “Materiality analysis” for  including 18 countries, 51 companies and 22 assets. eth
M
detailed information on the results of the analysis).
Identiﬁcation of issues
x
di
n
and stakeholders pe
p
A
& 
d 
n
o
B
102-40 102-46 102-47 103-1 n 
e
e
Gr
Regarding the 2019 materiality analysis process, the issues  ers, involved in the analysis process each year, are tasked 
and categories of stakeholders analysed were revised on the  with identifying and updating the list of categories of rele-
basis of indications received from the Company’s internal  vant stakeholders to draw up a complete list of current and 
and external stakeholders.  potential stakeholders and to ensure constant alignment 
The issues subject to analysis were defined on the basis of  with the sustainability context in which Enel operates.
various aspects, including company policies and principles  The methodology adopted involves an annual update to the 
of conduct, stakeholder feedback initiatives, the topics of  results achieved in the previous year and, every two years, 
greatest interest to sustainability rating agencies, industry  an analysis to determine a possible revision of the issues 
benchmarking studies and the Company’s strategic orien- and categories of stakeholders subject to analysis, to take 
tation. account of any changes in the context in which the Compa-
The various units responsible for relations with stakehold- ny operates. 
 
Methodological note 239