Assessment of priorities to the issues 
in company strategies
103-1
The materiality of the various issues in Enel’s strategies has  observance of the management tools implemented to moni-
been assessed through the involvement of the various compa- tor those impacts. 
ny Functions and has been submitted for review by the Chair- In particular, the analysis conducted in Brazil provides an ex-
man and Chief Executive Officer. This analysis reflects the stra- planatory overview of the project described above. Indeed, 
tegic guidelines set by the 2020-2022 Strategic Plan, the goals  with regard to one of the material issues, “Energy distribu-
of the Functions/Business Lines and the commitments made  tion”, the Country concluded that the development of the 
by the Group through its policies and rules of conduct. The  network gives rise to several positive external impacts, such 
aspect examined for the issues subject to analysis measures  as improvement of service, the creation of new job opportu-
the level of the impact of the issues on company strategies.   nities, through the spread of smart meters, and the poten-
In order to identify the Company’s positive and negative  tial reduction of possible environmental incidents thanks to 
impacts on socio-economic development and on the envi- a more efficient and modern network. However, this issue 
ronment in the countries in which it operates, as well as its  also entails negative impacts, such as possible workplace 
contribution to sustainable development, an “Impact Evalua- incidents related to network development activities, and the 
tion” pilot project was launched in 2019. The project, which  potential loss of biodiversity due to the pruning operations. 
involved five countries1, was carried out by each local Sustain- In addition, during 2019 the “Actual Response” project, 
ability unit, with the involvement of all Functions responsible  launched in 2018, was developed. This project involved nine 
for managing the issues subject to analysis, and included an  countries and aimed to collect and elaborate the measures 
assessment of the extent of the impact, in accordance with  taken by Group companies to manage the highest priority 
the main standards of reference; in addition, each issue was  issues, such as risk analysis, definition of targets and the 
analysed according to its direct and indirect contribution to the  study of the performances achieved, in order to conduct a 
SDGs, in line with the commitment made by the Group, and  comparative assessment of the Company’s level of presidi-
um on these issues.
Reconciliation of the issues of the 
materiality analysis and GRI Standards
102-40 102-46 102-47 103-1
The joint analysis of the stakeholder and Company aspects,  degree of commitment that the Group has made to each of 
through its representation in the materiality matrix present- them. The following table contains the codes for the topics 
ed in the “Materiality analysis” section of the “At a Glance”  included in the materiality analysis as established in the GRI 
chapter, enabled an assessment of the degree of “align- Standards or the “Aspects” of the GRI supplement dedicat-
ment” or “misalignment” between the priority of action  ed to the electric utilities sector (“Electric Utilities Sector 
assigned by the stakeholders to the various issues and the  Disclosures”) of reference, along with an indication of the 
context internal and external to the organization and the lim-
itations on the scope. 
1  Spain, Chile, Columbia, Brazil and Russia.
242 Sustainability Report 2019