s
ar
pill
ur 
O
The reporting process
On the basis of the results of the materiality analysis, it was  formance. The materiality analysis also formed the basis for 
possible to define the structure of the 2019 Sustainability Re- defining Enel’s sustainability goals for the 2020-2022 period, 
port by focusing more on the material topics, to which spe- as illustrated in the Sustainability Plan (see the “At a Glance” 
s
e
cific detailed chapters have been devoted. Similarly, the level  chapter, “The 2020-2022 Sustainability Plan”). n
o
b
of materiality of issues, which in turn have been divided into  The GRI Context Index, included in the Appendix, contains  ck
a
b
detailed sub-issues, influenced the depth in which to discuss  references to the 2019 Sustainability Report and the Group’s  G 
S
E
the individual subjects and to report on the relevant GRI indi- other reporting instruments. Please also consult the website 
cators (GRI Standards and Electric Utilities Sector Disclosure)  www.enel.com for further information, for example regard-
in order to qualify as “in accordance” Core option, as well as  ing innovation projects or the activities of Enel’s foundations 
the choice of the tools best suited to representing them (2019  and the 2019 Informe de Sostenibilidad by Endesa and Enel 
Annual Report and appended reports), to which reference  Américas for additional details concerning initiatives dedicat-
has been made for the discussion or further examination of  ed to customers and local communities in Spain and South 
more specific topics relating to economic or governance per- America.
e
ot
n
al 
c
Drafting and assurance gi
o
ol
d
o
h
et
M
102-56
The process of reporting and monitoring the Key Performance  cordance with the international standard ISAE 3000 (Revised)2 
Indicators (“KPIs”) relevant to sustainability involves the Holding,  and, accordingly, the Code of Ethics for Professional Account-
with regard to transversal issues, and all Group Business Lines,  ants, including professional independence and verification of the 
Functions and companies for issues and indicators specific to  absence of conflicts of interest that may affect the ethical prin-
the various sectors of activity. ciples of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and dili- x
di
n
Those responsible for collecting, verifying and processing the rel- gence, confidentiality and professional conduct. The audit report,  e
p
p
evant KPIs are identified within the units involved. The Sustain- which contains a detailed description of the principles adopted,  & A
d 
ability Planning and Performance Management unit, which is a  activities performed and conclusions reached, is appended.  n
o
B
part of the Innovability Function, is responsible for consolidating  In addition, a report on the green bond, also subject to an audit  n 
e
e
information and coordinating the entire process of preparing the  by EY SpA according to the criteria indicated in the standard ISAE  Gr
2019 Sustainability Report. 3000, has been appended to this Report, together with the rele-
The Report was analysed and assessed by Enel’s Control and  vant audit report. 
Risks Committee and Corporate Governance and Sustainabili- The GHG Inventory Statements were audited by DNV GL, with 
ty Committee on April 1, 2020 and approved by the Board of  a reasonable level of certainty for Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 
Directors on April 2. The document will then be presented to  emissions, as limited to the sale of natural gas, and with a limited 
the General Shareholders’ Meeting together with the Group’s  level of certainty for the other Scope 3 emissions included within 
Annual Report. the scope of application of the inventory. The audit was conduct-
This Report was subject to a limited audit by an independent  ed according to the standard ISO 4064-3 for the compliance of 
company, EY SpA, as the auditor also engaged to audit the Enel  greenhouse gas (GHG) inventories with the WBCSD/WRI Cor-
Group’s Annual Report. The limited audit was conducted in ac- porate Accounting and Reporting Standard (GHG Protocol).
2 International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 revised, 
“Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Fi-
nancial Information”.
Methodological note 245