Report boundaries
102-10 102-45 102-48 102-49 102-50 102-56
The information and data presented in the Report refer to  >  the sale, on October 1, 2019, of the coal power plant of 
Enel SpA and the companies within the scope of line-by-line  Reftinskaya GRES in Russia, sold by Enel Russia to JSC 
consolidation at December 31, 2019, in accordance with the  Kuzbassenergo5;
Group’s financial consolidation scope. In addition to the line-by- >  the acquisition by Enel Green Power SpA, through the US 
line consolidation scope, the document also includes the data  renewable energy subsidiary EGPNA (now ENA), of 100% 
and information regarding the company Asociación Nuclear As- of seven companies that own operating renewable source 
có-Vandellós II AIE (ANA CNVII AIE), to which the two Spanish  power plants, from Enel Green Power North America Re-
nuclear plants of Ascó and Vandellós are attributed. The com- newable Energy Partners (EGPNA REP), a joint venture 
pany is considered a joint operation under accounting standard  50% owned by EGPNA and the remaining 50% by Gener-
IFRS 113. In fact, it has been included in the Group’s scope of  al Electric Capital’s Energy Financial Services;
financial consolidation according to the proportional method in  >  the acquisition by Enel Green Power SpA, through the 
order to ensure a fair representation of its impacts, including in  US renewable energy subsidiary EGPNA (now ENA), of 
this Report, as it constitutes a material Group entity. The sole  Tradewind Energy, a company that develops renewables 
exception to the line-by-line consolidation scope are the com- projects based in the United States;
panies acquired in 2019, for which, on the basis of prevailing  >  the acquisition by Enel X Italia of 100% of YouSave SpA, 
practice, as also represented in the Consob report of January  an Italian company operating in the energy services sector 
19, 20184, it was decided to begin consolidation, with regard to  that provides assistance to large energy consumers; 
some of the areas covered in this document, with effect from  >  the acquisition by Enel X Srl of 55% of PayTipper, a pay-
2020, in the light of the reduced acquisition period. The areas of  ment services provider that offers its customers financial 
exclusion have been indicated directly in the specific chapters. services that make daily life easier.
In particular, the main organizational changes affecting the  For more detailed information on the changes that have oc-
Enel Group in 2019 were: curred, see the sections of the 2019 Annual Report “Main 
>  the sale of 100% of Mercure Srl, the company that owns  changes  in  the  scope  of  consolidation”  and  “Significant 
the Mercure biomass plant; events in 2019”. Where associated companies (which in the 
>  the sale, through the renewable energy subsidiary Enel  Annual Report are measured according to the equity method) 
Green Power Brasil Participações Ltda, of 100% of three  and other entities over which Enel exercises a significant influ-
renewable energy plants operating in Brazil;  ence (including joint ventures) have significant impacts, they 
have been included in the calculation of the data, in proportion to 
Enel’s equity interest, and cited in the text. For the details of the 
companies within the scope of consolidation, refer to the 2019 
Annual Report.
5 The sale of the R-GRES asset involves the removal from the scope of conso-
lidation of the relative capacity, generation, EBITDA and 25 plant personnel 
that were transferred to the purchaser; they will remain as Enel Russia until 
all the licences are transferred to the new purchaser: the plant personnel and 
the relative data and KPI related to their management, the management and 
relative safety rates related to plant personnel, the management of the Opex 
contracts for ordinary maintenance and therefore the relative contractor data 
3 A “joint operation” is a joint-control arrangement in which the parties that hold  (also in terms of injury rates), the environmental and plant licenses that will 
joint control have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities associat- gradually be transferred to the purchaser. The Capex contracts have been ta-
ed with the arrangement. ken on by the purchaser, therefore including the relative data regarding the 
4 Illustrative report on the results of the consultation and the consequences for  contractors and safety rates. The exclusion of Reftinskaya from the scope 
regulation, the activities of companies and operators and the interests of inve- involves a significant impact also on the greenhouse gas emissions and other 
stors and savers. Group environmental data.
246 Sustainability Report 2019