Green Bond
Report
Enel Finance International NV, the Group’s financial company controlled by Enel 
SpA, placed three green bonds on the European market in January 2017 (1.25 bil-
lion euros), 2018 (1.25 billion euros) and 2019 (1 billion euros) for a total of 3.50 
billion euros. The green bonds are for institutional investors and are guaranteed by 
Enel SpA. The net issuance proceeds – carried out under the medium-term bond 
issue program of Enel and Enel Finance International (Euro Medium-Term Notes 
Program - EMTN) – were used to finance eligible projects according to the “Green 
Bond Principles” categories, published by the ICMA (International Capital Market 
Association). In particular, the proceeds were used to finance: 
>  new projects for the development, construction and repowering of generation 
plants from renewable sources (green bond emission in 2017 and 2019);
>  new projects for the development, construction, repowering and refinancing of 
generation plants from renewable sources as well as projects for transmission, 
distribution and smart grids (green bond emission in 2018).
In order to facilitate the transparency and quality of the green bonds issued, the 
Enel Group has prepared and published specific “Green Bond Frameworks” for 
each year of emission, whose compliance with the reference principles has been 
confirmed by an external advisor, Vigeo Eiris, who issued the so-called “second par-
ty opinion”. Within the frameworks, the categories relating to eligible projects are 
aligned with the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations (UN SDG), 
in particular Goals 7, 9, 11 and 131.
The reference documents for the three emissions are available on the Enel Group’s 
website (https://www.enel.com/investors/fixed-income/main-programs/green-bond). 
The Group is among the first companies in the world having set up a “Green Bond 
Committee” with the aim of selecting projects and monitoring the progress of their 
development. The reporting document hereof, published for the third time in 2019, 
meets Enel’s commitment undertaken at the time of the bond issuance to report 
annually on the use of proceeds, on the environmental benefits deriving from the 
projects financed and on further ESG metrics linked to these projects.
1  SDG 7 “Affordable and clean energy”; SDG 9 “Industry, innovation and infrastructure”; SDG 11 “Su-
stainable cities and communities”; SDG 13 “Climate action”.
256 Sustainability Report 2019