Table D - Overall information
ss
arar
pillpill
ur ur 
OO
CRITERION INDICATOR GB 2019 DATA/APPROACH
Respect for human rights  Number and description of  No reporting on projects financed with GB proceeds.
standards  and  preven- the reports identified throu-
tion of breaches gh the Enel monitoring sy-
stem
Results of risk analysis on  The analysis conducted in the Group’s countries of presence highlighted an average 
human  rights  at  country  risk perceived as “acceptable” and “high priority”1. Group human rights practices and  eses
nn
level policies were subsequently assessed as “robust”2. However, specific action plans have  oo
bb
been developed for each country of presence as well as a centrally managed improve- ckck
aa
ment plan to harmonize and integrate processes and policies defined at the global level  G bG b
and applied at local level.  ESES
Respect for labor rights Number and description of  No reporting on projects financed with GB proceeds.
the reports identified throu-
gh the Enel monitoring sy-
stem
Results of risk analysis on  The analysis conducted in the Group’s countries of presence highlighted an average 
human  rights  at  country  risk perceived as “acceptable” and “to be monitored”1. Group human rights practices 
level and policies were subsequently assessed as “robust”2. However, specific action plans 
have been developed for each country of presence as well as a centrally managed im-
ee
provement plan to harmonize and integrate processes and policies defined at the global  otot
nn
level and applied at local level. al al 
cc
gigi
Working conditions (em- Number of injuries (fatal and  No reporting on renewable plant projects financed with GB revenues and 2 “High Con- oloolo
ployment relationships, “High Consequence”) sequence” injuries in Infrastructure and Networks in Italy (only Enel people). odod
hh
training, health and sa- etet
MM
fety conditions, respect 
for working hours)
Integration  of  environ- Ethical clauses in Through the General Contract Conditions, Enel requires its contractors and subcon-
mental and social factors contracts with suppliers tractors, among other things, to comply with the ten principles of the United Nations 
into the supply chain - Global Compact, respect for and protection of internationally recognized human rights, 
Responsible purchasing as well as respect for ethical and social obligations regarding the fight against child la-
bour and protection of women, equal treatment, prohibition of discrimination, freedom 
of association, association and representation, forced labour, safety and environmental 
xx
protection, sanitary conditions and also regulatory conditions, retribution, contributions,  didi
nn
insurance and tax. pepe
pp
AA
Business ethics  Number and description of  One violation found in the Renewables area and one violation in the Infrastructure and  & & 
d d 
(prevention of corruption the reports identified throu- Networks area on projects financed with GB proceeds. onon
BB
and money laundering, gh the Enel monitoring sy- n n 
ee
fraud, anticompetitive stem ee
GrGr
practices)
Audit and internal % of area/country The average annual coverage level of the processes through internal audit activities is 
control processes covered equal to 40% for Renewables and 53% for Infrastructure and Networks in Italy.
by internal audit activities
   
(1)  Average perceived risk: average of perceived risk levels identified in the countries being analyzed. Reference scale of risks: 1. High risk; 2. High priority risk; 3. 
Risk to be monitored; 4. Acceptable risk.
(2) Reference scale of performance values: Robust (75%-100%); Good (50%-75%); Sufficient (25%-50%); Needs improvement (0%-25%).
GGrreeeenn  BBoonndd  RReeppoorrtt   226677