People centricity
Our people
Sustainability Report
Our people and their value
Annual Report
102-7 401-1 404-1 longer required and allowing people to 
405-1 405-2 work on new areas of specialisation.
Training is increasingly a partner in 
The energy and competence of people,  the growth of all individuals, stimulat-
and a shared vision make it possible to  ing personal initiative, self-learning and a 
manage ever increasing levels of com- pro-active spirit. In 2019, around 39 train-
plexity while maintaining commitments  ing hours per capita were supplied on av-
assumed  with  the  market.  Progress  erage, for a total or more than 2.6 million 
springs from ideas and co-creation, and  hours. Specifically, 46% of people were 
is fuelled by values such as trust, respon- involved in activities aimed at strength-
sibility, proactivity and innovation. ening  digital  skills.  Technical-specialist 
At the end of 2019 Enel people in the  training  programmes  in  different  busi-
various Group countries totalled 68,253  ness areas were also promoted through 
(down by 1,019 vs 2018), of which 44%  the vehicle of schools and academies. 
in Italy, 15% in Iberia, 30% in Latin Amer- Enel however also focuses on more ex-
ica, 21% women, 12% under 30 years of  perientially based training, such as job 
age, 55% from 30 to 50 and 34% over  shadowing, which arises from interaction  2019, the number of women in recruit-
50. People with disabilities or persons in  between individuals with different roles  ment pools totalled 42% (39% in 2018). 
protected categories totalled 2,254. The  and responsibilities, who open up to new  The quantitative and qualitative perfor-
inclusion of this diversity makes it possible  inputs in a scenario of training and recipro- mance appraisal process of the past year 
to adopt innovative solutions, enhance the  cal sharing of skills and aptitudes.  involved 100% of eligible and reachable 
contribution of multiple perspectives and  Openness and listening are core as- people4, of whom a total of 99%5 were 
have different risk perceptions, effectively  pects of the Open Power culture and  appraised. Conversely, the quantitative 
generating social and economic value.  they constitute the engine of the climate  assessment was carried out exclusively 
In a scenario of transformation, char- survey conducted by Enel at two-yearly  for the population with variable remu-
acterised by a high level of automa- intervals. The 2018 survey focused on  neration. Finally, the equal remuneration 
tion, ever more advanced technological  topics such as well-being, engagement,  rating (ERR6) related to the managerial 
evolution and new technical and pro- and safety. In 2019, action plans were  population was equal to approximately 
fessional profiles, Enel has developed  defined and developed for the identified  84% in 2019. 
upskilling and reskilling programmes  areas of improvement. 
that promote the evolution of talents  The recruitment, hiring, development 
and skills. In particular, the upskilling  and performance appraisal processes  4 Eligible and reachable: those with an open term 
contract who were in the workforce and active 
programmes are focused on the devel- form the foundation of relations with 
for at least three months in 2019.
opment of existing professional compe- people within the Company. Enel has 
5 Forecast data, since the closure of the asses-
tences and adding new skills. Converse- made a commitment to guarantee equal  sment process has been postponed to May 2, 
2020 due to the Covid-19 crisis. 
ly, reskilling is aimed at creating new  representation of both genders in the in-
6 Manager ERR (Equal Remuneration Ratio) = 
professional  profiles,  replacing  skills  itial stages of its recruitment and hiring 
fixed + variable female managers/fixed + va-
that have become obsolete or are no  processes within 2021. At the end of  riable male managers.
26 Sustainability Report 2019