Energy of the circular economy
Sustainability Report
Commitment to the fight against climate change
Infrastructure, ecosystems and platforms
Sustainable supply chain
Environmental sustainability
The circular economy is a new paradigm  actors, in an Open Power perspective. This  texts and methods of application.
to rethink the current development mod- approach has allowed the development of  A lean and diffused governance structure, 
el, combining innovation, competitiveness  new business initiatives linked to techno- coordinated by an area at Holding level, 
and sustainability, and to respond to the big  logical innovation and the development of  has been set up to promote and manage 
environmental and social questions.  assets and materials, while also contributing  these issues. The Business Lines define 
This process, which Enel launched in 2016,  to reducing the Group’s exposure to the use  and identify the models, products, services 
has been gradually extended to the entire  of non-renewable raw materials.  and processes in relation to the reference 
value chain, developing the collaboration and  Enel’s vision of the circular economy stands  contexts, while the Countries contribute to 
contribution of various internal and external  on five pillars that define the related con- discussions concerning the topic of circular 
Useful life extension
Approach to the design and management of an asset
or product aimed at extending its useful life, e.g. 
by means of modular design, facilitated repairability, 
predictive maintenance.
CPriorcduulcatrio inn pauntds use model  Circular D esign Uexsteefnusl iloifne BusPinreosdsu mcto adse la i ns ewrvhiicceh 
based on renewable inputs  the customer purchases a 
or previous life cycles (reuse  service for a limited time, 
and recycling). while the company 
Circularinputs a servPicreoduct as mmaaxiifnmatcaistioninrsg o at fnth hdtehe  uep us rptoeirlpfiosuedalr tutliiifoceetns,.   
e
s
U
ar 
ul
Circ
Value RecovcNeycerlywes life Splhaatrfeodrms
New life cycles Shared platforms
All solutions aimed at preserving the  Management systems in 
value of an asset at the end of its life cycle  common among multiple users 
thanks to reuse, regeneration, upcycling or  of products, assets, or skills.
recycling, in synergy with the other pillars.
28 Sustainability Report 2019