(1)  The institutional investor is an entity who, under a specific mandate or on their own account, undertakes equity and/or property investment on a 
continuous and professional basis. The category includes: mutual funds, pension funds, hedge funds, investment and merchant banks, insurance 
companies.
(2)  Calculated comparing the number of shares held by identified Socially Responsible Investors (SRIs) with the number of shares held by identified 
institutional investors.
(3)  SRIs are investors who state that they include environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors in their traditional financial analyses in order to 
guide their investment decisions (inclusion of at least one ESG criterion and adhesion to the main international principles approved by organisations 
such as UNPRI, UKSIF, EUROSIF are among the key factors in order to classify an investor as an SRI).
(4)  Calculated as the difference between the valuation on the last open market day of the year and the valuation of the previous year.
(5)  Source: Bloomberg and Company filings.
(6)  Only requests received have been considered, not the responses provided.
(7)  The number of independent directors pursuant to the Consolidated Law on Finance (TUF) is 8 (including the Chairperson). The number of indepen-
dent directors pursuant to the Corporate Governance Code is 7 because the Code does not allow the Chairperson to be considered independent 
since he/she is a “senior representative” of the company.
(8)  In 2019, the analysis of reports received in 2018 was completed, and, for this reason, the number of confirmed violations for 2018 was restated 
from 30 to 31. The additional violation is attributable to reasons of a supplier’s compliance with the law on overtime.
(9)  Corruption consists of the abuse of power with the goal of private gain and can be instigated by individuals in the public or private sector. It is inter-
preted here as including corrupt practices such as bribery, fraud, extortion, collusion, conflicts of interest and money laundering.
(10) Non-repayable loans do not have a linear or foreseeable trend; while a significant grant was given in 2018, this did not occur in 2019 as only minor 
projects were set out.
(11) With regard to 2016 data, the total contributions to trade and employer associations is 8,287,592 euros.
324 Sustainability Report 2019