102-15 103-2 103-3 201-2
Sustainability Report Commitment to 
At a Glance
Sound governance
Performance indicators
the ﬁght against 
Annual Report
Report on corporate governance
Remuneration report
climate change
296 Enel’s action against 
 g/kWh
eq
climate change
specific CO emissions from total 
2
net production
According to the estimates of the IPCC1 (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
70%
Change), global warming has become a reality. The temperature has increased 1 
°C compared with pre-industrial levels and, if it continues to grow at the current 
reduction in direct CO emissions   rate, the increase will probably reach 1.5 °C between 2030 and 2050. The green-
2
per kWh  (Scope 1) by 2030,  
eq house gas (GHG) emissions have been constantly increasing over the past decade 
in comparison to 2017  
and there is no clear signal that they will peak over the upcoming years. The sci-
(SBTi certified target)
entific community is asking for urgent action to speed up the transition towards 
a zero-emissions economy in order to minimise the impact of climate change. 
In 2019, the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) pointed out that, if 
50% global greenhouse gas emissions are not reduced 7.6% every year between 2020 
and 2030, it will not be possible to reach the targets of the Paris Agreement. 
renewable net installed capacity In this context, it is essential to promote collaboration between governments, 
companies, financial institutions and civil society by developing the awareness of 
the various stakeholders about topics related to climate change. Companies play 
a fundamental role as they are responsible for the majority of global emissions 
91%
but, at the same time, they have a unique ability to develop innovative solutions to 
contribute towards their reduction on a large scale. The electricity sector can work 
EBITDA from low-carbon products,  
towards reducing emissions related to the energy production and at the same 
services and technologies
time promote the electrification of the energy demand in order to support the 
decarbonization of other industries and services. Being aware of this challenge, 
Enel has set itself the objective of reaching the decarbonization of its energy 
mix by 2050, as announced publicly in 2015 when the United Nations launched 
its sustainable development goals, with particular reference to SDG 13 “Climate 
1 The IPCC, founded by UNEP (United Nations Environment Programme) and WMO (World Meteorologi-
cal Organization) in 1988, is the main international organization for climate change monitoring. The IPCC 
provides regular assessments of the scientific basis of climate change aimed at supporting governments 
in the definition of climate policies.
38 Sustainability Report 2019