s
ar
pill
ur 
O
in June 2017 published specific recommendations for the 
voluntary reporting of the financial impact of climate risks. 
The Group has also integrated the “Guidelines on report-
ing climate-related information” published by the Euro-
pean Commission in June 2019, taking into consideration 
the results of the first work performed by the European Lab 
Project Task Force on Climate-related Reporting (PTF CRR),  eses
nn
oo
which collects the relative good practices (“How to improve  kbkb
cc
aa
climate-related reporting”). G bG b
SS
A zero emissions system in the second half of the current  EE
century, as foreseen by the Paris Agreement, will require 
significant  technological,  social  and  economic  transfor-
mations. For this reason, the transition must also be just, 
promoting the creation of sustainable and decent jobs. 
Therefore the climate action must be accompanied by the 
promotion of a just and inclusive transition and the crea-
tion of sustainable and decent jobs. 
e
ot
n
al 
c
gi
o
action”. Therefore it is committed to developing a business  ol
A just and inclusive  od
model in line with the goals of the Paris Agreement to  h
et
maintain the average increase of the global temperature  transition M
below 2 °C compared with pre-industrial levels and to con-
tinue to limit the increase to 1.5 °C. In 2019, the Group re-
Enel is convinced that decarbonization is an opportunity for 
affirmed this commitment once again by responding to the 
the entire society, but it is fundamental that the benefits of 
call to action from the United Nations, being the first Italian 
energy transition are shared, accompanying it with wide-
company that signed the pledge to limit the rise in global 
scale measures that support climatic, energy, environmen-
temperatures to 1.5 °C and to achieving zero emissions 
tal, industrial and social aspects.  dix
by 2050. Enel also pledged to set interim quantitative tar- en
p
p
gets in line with the criteria of the Science Based Targets  A
& 
initiative (SBTi), by which a new target of 70% reduction in  Enel’s commitment  d 
n
its own direct greenhouse gas emissions per kWheq by  to the United Nations en Bo
2030, as compared with 2017 base year, was announced in  In July 2019, Enel’s Chief Executive Officer signed the “just  Gre
September 2019.  transition” commitment promoted by the United Nations, 
Particular attention is placed on the climate change ad- which commits the Company to guaranteeing that the new 
aptation policies in order to increase the resilience of the  jobs will be fair, decent and inclusive. Enel is committed to 
assets along the entire value change, thereby limiting po- respecting the following international standards both with-
tentially negative impacts and guaranteeing a safe and sus- in the company and having them respected by its suppliers: 
tainable energy service in all the countries where the Group  >  social dialogue with workers and their trade unions;
operates. >  respect for worker rights (including those regarding 
In order to guarantee increased transparency in its commu- safety) on the basis of the requirements of the Interna-
nications and relationships with its stakeholders, Enel peri- tional Labour Organization - ILO;
odically reports on its related activities in line with the inter- >  social protection, including pensions and health care;
national standards of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative)  >  salary guarantee, also those in line with the ILO direc-
and is publicly committed to adopting the recommenda- tives.
tions of the Task force on Climate-related Financial Dis-
closures (TCFD) of the Financial Stability Board, which 
Commitment to the fight against climate change 39