The importance of local actions In particular, the agreement that was reached during the 
In Italy Enel manages Futur-e, a project for the requalifica- 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference in 
tion of 23 power plants, with the goal of finding new solu- Paris (COP21) marked a fundamental step towards cli-
tions and methods of use based on the criteria of social,  mate action. The conference instituted a shared approach 
environmental and economic sustainability. This activity is  on a global level to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions 
in close collaboration with local administrations, companies  that cause climate change. This is supported by sound 
and communities to develop energy reconversion and the  regulatory governance which however still lacks the rules 
circular economy, while promoting innovation. that would permit the redistribution amongst the individ-
In 2019 the project was also extended to the thermoelectric  ual countries of the additional reduction that is necessary 
plants in Spain for which decommissioning by the end of  to reach the main objective of the agreement. The objec-
2020 has been announced. In particular, the project relat- tive is to maintain the average increase in world tempera-
ed to the Compostilla power plant involves specific areas  ture well below 2 °C as compared to pre-industrial levels, 
of action that range from the active search for employment  aiming to limit it to 1.5 °C. COP25 was held in Spain in 
for directly involved personnel to training for improving the  2019 with the objective of promoting further progress in 
employability of plant personnel and the local community, as  the key points of the Paris Agreement, in particular arti-
well as the promotion of economic, employment and sus- cle 6 regarding international carbon markets. COP25 also 
tainability activities in the area of reference. concentrated on pushing countries to reinforce their am-
bitions in view of the presentation in 2020 of new and 
Awareness and research   updated national action plans for climate change (NDC 
- Nationally Determined Contribution). Enel and its Span-
activities
ish subsidiary Endesa have played a proactive role as a 
The Just E-volution 2030 study carried out by The Eu-
conference sponsor. They convened and participated in 
ropean House - Ambrosetti in collaboration with Enel and 
various side events and governmental meetings that were 
Fondazione Centro Studi Enel was presented in September 
held during the conference.
2019. The study used an innovative econometric model to 
estimate the impact of the energy transition in progress, 
“European Green Deal” 
supported  by  increasing  electrification,  digitalization  and 
On December 11, 2019, the European Commission pre-
generation from renewable sources, on industrial produc-
sented the “European Green Deal” (EGD), a growth strat-
tion, employment, air quality in the European Union and in 
egy that aims to improve the well-being of persons. The 
more specifically in Italy, Spain and Romania.
European Union intends to achieve net zero emission by 
2050, protect human, animal and plant life by reducing 
pollution, help companies become world leaders in clean 
products and technology, contribute towards a just and in-
Enel and the global climate 
clusive transition. On March 4, 2020 the Commission pre-
change context sented the first European legislative proposal regarding 
climate to transform this political commitment into a legal 
obligation and stimulate investments. To achieve these 
The policies and regulatory frame-
objectives, all of the following sectors must act:
work on climate change in 2019
>  energy: decarbonize the energy sector;
>  construction: restructure buildings, help people re-
Conference of the Parties (COP) duce their energy bills and energy use;
The Conference of the Parties (COP) of the United Na- >  industry: support the industry to innovate and become 
tions Framework Convention on Climate Change meets  world green economy leaders;
once a year with all the countries that signed the Kyo- >  mobility:  introduce  cleaner,  more  economic  and 
to Protocol and the Paris Agreement, which are the two  healthier private and public means of transport.
main international treaties that reflect the global commit- An assessment of measures to define a more ambitious 
ment to combat climate change. greenhouse gas emissions reduction target for 2030 is en-
40 Sustainability Report 2019