s
ar
pill
ur 
O
ss
ee
nn
oo
bb
kk
cc
aa
bb
G G 
SS
EE
visioned: 50-55% less than the current target of 40%. To  EU countries by December 31, 2020.
this end, the European Commission will launch a review  The new legislation fosters the integration of the differ-
of all relevant climate-related policy instruments in order  ent technologies and the participation of diverse market 
e
to align them with the new climate targets: in primis the  operators. It also opens up the possible development of  ot
n
Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) and the possibility of  mechanisms to provide long-term signals to investment in  cal 
gi
extending it to new sectors, the Energy Taxation Direc- decarbonization (e.g. auctions, PPAs) and the adequacy of  olo
d
o
tive and the introduction of a “carbon border adjustment  the electricity system (the capacity market). h
et
M
mechanism” for specific sectors aimed at reducing the 
risk of “carbon leakage” and preserving the competitive- Enel’s positioning
ness of EU industry. The European Union’s decision-making and regulatory pro-
A proposal has been advanced for a new sustainable  cesses  affect  the  on-going  energy  transition,  effecting 
investment plan that includes a “just transition mecha- company business models, the behaviours of consumers 
nism” and a “just transition fund” aimed at helping vul- and individual citizens, with a direct impact on legislative 
nerable regions and sectors that are heavily dependent on  framework implemented on a national level in the countries 
x
di
fossil fuels and mobilising the funds necessary to achieve  in which the Group operates. Furthermore, regarding its  en
p
the objectives of the European Green Deal. transnational nature and the current global challenges, the  Ap
& 
European legislative process is becoming increasingly com- d 
n
o
“Clean Energy for all Europeans”   plex and, for that purpose, closer collaboration is required  n B
e
legislative package between EU institutions and the other stakeholders.  Gre
The “Clean Energy for all Europeans” legislative package,  In this context, Enel decided a few years ago to establish 
proposed by the European Commission in 2016, laid the  the Europe and Euro-Mediterranean Affairs Function, which 
foundation necessary for achieving greater integration  monitors relevant topics and represents the Group on a Eu-
and regionalisation of markets for electricity, balancing,  ropean level in relation to institutions, organisations, asso-
flexibility services and capacity. Following the inter-insti- ciations and other active parties. A specific unit is dedicat-
tutional agreement reached in 2018, the following regu- ed to consolidating and representing the Group’s position 
lations and directives completing the package were pub- on policies regarding climate change, low-carbon emission 
lished in the Official Journal of the European Union on 14  strategies, international carbon market regulation, the envi-
June 2019: the Electricity Market Regulation (2019/943),  ronment and the safety of procurements. Enel will therefore 
the ACER Regulation (2019/942), the Risk Preparedness  use this unit to support climate protection and follow the 
Regulation (2019/941) and the Electricity Market Directive  involvement of institutional stakeholders, professional asso-
(2019/944). The measures entered force on July 4, 2019,  ciations, non-governmental organisations and the academic 
with the regulations taking immediate effect, while the  world. This activity of involving the stakeholders contributes 
directive must be transposed into the law of the various  towards the evolution of the European regulatory framework 
Commitment to the fight against climate change 41