towards ambitious climate objectives. Coordination is also 
guaranteed with the various company areas and the differ-
ent countries of the Group in order to ensure that all of the 
regulatory processes in which the company is asked to par-
ticipate, on a European and national level, will be fully in line 
with Enel’s strategy towards the promotion of a low carbon 
energy model and the electrification of energy demand.
Enel welcomes the various climate policies and regulatory 
measures announced and implemented in 2019 in the var-
ious geographical areas where it operates, in particular in 
Europe. For this reason, the company considers the Green 
New Deal presented by the European Commission as a 
great opportunity for accelerating the European Union’s path 
towards a decarbonized and sustainable economy, which in 
turn will bring business opportunities that are in line with the 
Group’s strategy and sustainable business model. 
During 2019, Enel also actively participated in public consul-
tations, meetings, conferences, workshops and events con-
cerning the four measures published as part of the Clean  tions, the NGOs and other operations in an open exchange 
Energy Package. It welcomes the recognition of energy ef- regarding the most critical issues to guarantee the success 
ficiency as a key pillar towards the transmission to low car- of the energy transitions.
bon emissions energy and contributes towards establishing 
a reliable system for increasing the renewables and meeting 
the challenges of the future electric energy markets in an  Enel’s position on carbon pricing
efficient manner in terms of costs and promoting coopera- Enel believes that the “cap and trade” system is the most 
tion among Member States. The fixed objectives will stim- efficient method for reducing emissions, especially in indus-
ulate Europe’s industrial competitiveness, boost renewable  trialised economies. The definition of an absolute emissions 
energies, create new jobs, reduce energy bills, contribute  objective guarantees the efficiency in reaching the environ-
towards facing energy poverty and improve air quality. mental objective, whereas the signal of the price fixed by the 
Enel is also working together with the governments and  market guarantees economic efficiency and minimisation of 
stakeholders in Europe, Latin America and Africa to devel- costs. In general, Enel believes that the institution of a “cap 
op an energy transition roadmap with an open approach,  and trade” system that is based on a solid regulatory frame-
sharing policy design and technical knowledge to contrib- work guarantees the certainty of long-term climatic objec-
ute towards the implementation of the Paris Agreement.  tives and permits market mechanisms to determine prices 
Their development typically involves four main activities: a)  that are coherent with the macroeconomic cycles and with 
greenhouse gas scenarios for 2050, developing technologi- market conditions. Instead, environmental taxation works 
cal mixes on an economic level and corresponding emission  well for countries with a weaker institutional framework and 
profiles in line with the objectives of decarbonization and the  for sectors with distributed sources of emissions. The de-
national circumstances; b) greenhouse gas emission scenar- bate regarding the suitability of “cap and trade” or a carbon 
ios for 2030 that identify intermediate objectives in line with  tax must be developed from a multitude of prospectives, 
the 2050 scenarios and outline the trajectories to follow to  balancing the cost-effectiveness of policy instruments with 
reach the long-term decarbonization objectives; c) political  technical and political feasibility. The selection of the policy 
recommendations targeted towards creating a political and  option should also include an evaluation of the sectors that 
regulatory context that is favourable for the investments  must be covered by the system as well as an assessment of 
necessary for an efficient energy transition and for reach- the current policy framework. 
ing the 2030 and 2050 objectives; d) dialogues between the  Therefore, Enel recognises the role of EU ETS in providing 
concerned parties that enable participation with the institu- a suitable price signal associated with CO emissions in the 
2
42 Sustainability Report 2019