s
ar
pill
ur 
O
European Union and welcomes the results of the revision  tor through which it is committed to reaching a zero carbon 
of the EU ETS Directive for 2021-2030. The EU ETS makes  emissions electrical energy mix in Europe much earlier than 
it possible to utilise the already existing framework harmo- 2050 and to increasing energy efficiency and the electrifica-
nised on a European level, which guarantees technological  tion of energy demand in order to mitigate the effects of cli-
neutrality and the uniform treatment of market operators.  mate change. Enel’s Chief Executive Officer ended his term 
To summarise, the EU ETS is the cornerstone of the EU’s  as Chairman in June 2019. 
climatic policies, which are also supplemented by other pol- Global Sustainable Electricity Partnership (GSEP) - The  eses
nn
oo
icies that permit reaching the climatic objectives while pro- objective of the partnership is to guide sustainable energy  bb
kk
cc
tecting the competitiveness of the EU’s industry system.  development by electrifying and connecting communities all  baba
G G 
Based on these considerations, the Enel Group does not  over the world. Enel will chair the GSEP for the 2019-2020  ESES
favour the introduction of national carbon taxes (or a car- financial year, with the Enel X CEO acting as the Chairman, 
bon price “floor”) in the EU’s ETS sectors, as this would  and will host the executive meetings, promoting the best 
significantly distort competition within the European single  electrification practices and encouraging its shareholders to 
market and increase the overall cost of reaching the desired  share examples of virtuous active partnerships as the topic 
environmental result. of the year.
In areas outside of the European Union (such as Latin Amer- Wind Europe - The aim of this association, guided by the 
ica), Enel’s assets are increasingly covered by carbon pric- companies, is to promote national and international policies 
e
ing schemes, mainly carbon taxes that are transformed into  and initiatives targeted towards reinforcing market develop- not
al 
“cap and trade” schemes, both national as well as through  ment infrastructures and technologies connected to wind  c
gi
o
regional connections, over the medium-long term.   energy, on a European and global level. During 2019, Enel  dol
o
was part of the Board of Directors and, overall, 13 of the 19  eth
M
work groups and task forces.
Action platforms and partnerships 
Solar Power Europe - This company-led association repre-
for facing climate change
sents various organisations that play an active role along the 
entire value chain, with the objective of outlining the regu-
102-12 102-13 latory context and improving business opportunities related 
The Group plays an active role in various sector associations  to solar energy in Europe. Enel has been widely represented 
and organisations with the objective of promoting topics  within this association during 2018, by holding the position  x
di
regarding energy transition on a national and global level.  of Vice-Chairman both for the Board of Directors as well as  en
p
p
Some of the international associations with which Enel  the Strategic Committee and also by playing an active role in  & A
collaborated actively in 2019 are listed below (see also the  different task forces during the course of the year. nd 
o
B
“Sound governance” chapter). SmartEn - SmartEn is a leading association in the digital  n 
e
e
Three  Percent  Club  -  The  Group  joined  this  platform  and decentralised energy solution sector that concentrates  Gr
launched within the Energy Transition Coalition of the UN  on energy transition through intelligent cooperation among 
Climate Action Summit held in September 2019. It is a plat- consumer, grid, transmission and generation sectors which 
form of 15 governments, 13 businesses and international  all play an equally important role in an integrated energy sys-
organizations committed to help put the world on the nec- tem. In 2019, Enel played an active role in the Board of Direc-
essary path to achieve the required improvements to meet  tors as well as in various work groups that were established 
the Paris Agreement, driving a 3% annual global increase in  to promote sustainable decentralised energy solutions. 
energy efficiency.  E.DSO for Smart Grids - The European Distribution Sys-
Climate Finance Leadership Initiative (CFLI) - Enel is a  tem Operators (E.DSO) is the primary interface between 
founding partner of the initiative, launched by Michael R.  distributors and European institutions by promoting large-
Bloomberg, inspired by the Secretary-General of the United  scale development and the experimentation of technolo-
Nations and aimed to promote private sector investments in  gies for smart grids in real situations, as well as new mar-
response to climate change. ket and regulatory models aimed at reaching the European 
eurelectric - Under the chairmanship of Enel, eurelectric  Union’s energy and climate objectives. Enel is the Vice-Chair-
adopted a long-term view of the European electrical sec- man of the Board of Directors together with other players of 
Commitment to the fight against climate change 43