the international electricity grid.
European Association for Storage of Energy (EASE) - 
EASE is the main association that represents organisations 
active along the entire value chain of energy storage. During 
2019, Enel covered various key roles in the governance sys-
tem and also participated in preparing position papers target-
ed towards promoting the role of energy accumulation in a 
decarbonized energy system.
International Emissions Trading Association (IETA) - This 
non-profit business organisation allows companies to engage 
themselves in a climate action that is coherent with the ob-
jectives of the “United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate Change” and introduces efficient exchange systems 
based on the greenhouse gas emissions market. In 2019, 
IETA’s work was particularly focused on the EU level, sup-
porting the study of the imminent EU Green Deal and, on the 
Latin American level, supporting the discussions on adopting 
the carbon price in Latin America. Enel is a member of the 
IETA Board of Directors and is actively involved in various 
work groups and activities. >  Enel Focus On: a series of informal meetings was held in 
RES4Africa - A network of international leaders that the rep- New York, Addis Ababa, Bogotá and Santiago de Chile in 
resents the entire renewable energy value chain and supports  order to involve the main players and influencers and start 
the creation of a favourable environment for investment in  an open dialogue with Group management on the main 
renewable  energies  and  strategic  partnerships  in  Africa.  challenges of energy transition. Various climate-related 
Through Enel Green Power, the Enel Group is one of the pro- topics were covered, such as renewable energy powered 
moting members and currently chairs the association. electrification in a zero emissions future, electric mobility 
and energy efficiency;
>  social media: in 2019 Enel continued using social media 
The stakeholder 
to raise public awareness about topics related to climate 
engagement process  change, including decarbonization, renewable energies, 
electrification, electric mobility and responsible energy 
consumption;
Customers, consumers, 
>  Twenergy: is a digital ecosystem launched by Enel’s 
inﬂuencers, civil society 
Spanish subsidiary Endesa, with the objective of encour-
and local communities
aging responsible energy consumption by collecting the 
Climate change is a challenge that concerns the entire socie- opinions of experts on energy efficiency through articles, 
ty. Enel promotes the involvement of its main stakeholders in  digital meetings and by supporting various sector initia-
order to increase their awareness and develop a constructive  tives; 
dialogue that can provide a valuable contribution towards the  >  raising the awareness of local communities: with the 
creation of solutions that mitigate climate change and create  Creating Shared Value (CSV) model, Enel has organised 
value for the Group. The most relevant actions carried out in  various workshops with the local communities involved 
2019 include: in its activities in the various geographical areas, making 
>  materiality analysis: climate change, in terms of priority  them aware of topics connected to climate change and 
for stakeholders and Company performance in the vari- explaining how renewables are an extremely effective 
ous countries in which it operates, was one of the top- solution, with benefits not only for the environment but 
ics covered when identifying the main priorities for the  also for the creation of new jobs and for social-economic 
stakeholders for sustainability planning; development. 
44 Sustainability Report 2019