s
ar
pill
ur 
O
Enel at the UN Climate Action Summit 2019
In September 2019, Enel participated in the United Nations Climate Action Summit, the most important global event 
on climate change, gathering Heads of States, corporate as well as civil society and policy leaders to take increasing 
ambitious actions to address this challenge, also by pushing for the transformation of economies in line with the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). ss
ee
nn
The Summit, which was the first event of its kind to be convened by UN Secretary-General, focused on a set of action  bobo
kk
cc
areas, including the energy transition, climate finance and carbon pricing, as well as infrastructure and cities, to boost  baba
G G 
ambition and accelerate action to implement the goals of the 2015 Paris Agreement.  ESES
Enel played a crucial role participating in the Energy Transition Coalition track, being involved in the Italian flagship 
initiative “Catalysing the Energy Transition through Digital Power Infrastructure” which aims at catalysing the 
energy transition by promoting digital infrastructures and renewable energy, particularly in developing countries.
Furthermore, Enel’s CEO, attended also the UN Private Sector Forum. Hosted by the UN Secretary-General and 
organised by the UN Global Compact, the event gathered Chief Executives, young climate leaders, Heads of State 
and Government as well as UN leaders on the occasion of the Summit, stirring a multi- stakeholder, intergenerational 
dialogue to share an urgent and collective course of action in tackling the climate crisis.
e
Enel’s proactive engagement and leadership was highlighted through the commitment to two important pledges on  ot
n
the occasion of the Summit: cal 
gi
o
>  Business Ambition for 1.5˚C - Our Only Future, through which Enel committed to reach net-zero emissions  ol
d
o
by no later than 2050, in line with limiting the rise in global temperatures to 1.5 °C with respect to pre-industrial  eth
M
levels;
>  Just transition & green, decent jobs, through which Enel committed to promote a just energy transition while 
respecting the international labour standards across its business.
Further information on the pledges and its implementation can be found in the present chapter.
x
di
n
e
p
Our people p
A
& 
In 2019, Enel involved all the people that work for the  specific internal communication campaigns were organised  nd 
o
B
Company in awareness activities in order to increase their  to illustrate the main events and discuss the new challeng- n 
e
involvement in climate change aspects and promote a cul- es and opportunities that emerged during the event. Gre
ture of innovation and business entrepreneurship on a  Finally, Enel collects the opinion of its employees on annual 
global level to overcome the energy challenges. basis as part of the materiality analysis carried out to define 
Enel Days 2019, which are annual company events, pro- the objectives of the Sustainability Plan.
moted discussions and exchanges about topics such as 
electrification, decarbonization, digitalization and urbanisa-
tion. The main priorities of the Strategic Plan for the next 
three years were presented, in line with what was com-
municated to the financial community during the Capital 
Markets Day. 
On a local level, Enel has also launched awareness cam-
paigns on sustainability and climate change, such as the 
internal campaign launched in Spain concerning the UN 
SDG commitments, including SDG 13 “Climate action”. 
On the occasion of the United Nations Climate Summit, 
Commitment to the fight against climate change 45