Enel’s impact on climate change 
102-15 103-2 103-3 201-2
Electricity is essential to guarantee the sustainable progress  also has a positive impact on the reduction of indirect green-
of modern societies and represents a key factor in reaching  house gas emissions (Scope 2) associated with the acquisition 
the goals of the United Nations 2030 Agenda, in particular  of electricity to cover the requirements of business activities. 
SDG 7, to guarantee everyone accessible, reliable, sustaina- The management of the electricity network involves the 
ble and modern energy, and SDG 13, regarding climate action. generation of indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) 
The electricity production has always played a key role in  associated with energy losses on the grid, equal to 3.8 mil t  
eq
climate change, as the use of fossil fuels is a considerable  of CO in 2019. Enel is actively investing in the digitalization 
2 
source of greenhouse gas emissions. Technological devel- and automation of the electricity grid to reduce these losses 
opment, in particular in the area of renewable energies, has  and increase reliability, while promoting the diffusion of re-
however completely transformed this scenario by making  newables in the energy system.
electricity one of the main solutions for reducing the carbon  Even if Enel does not have a direct impact in terms of green-
footprint world-wide. Enel is aware of these impacts and im- house gas emissions in the retail market, the use of products 
plements specific actions to minimise them, promoting the  sold by its own customers generates greenhouse gas emis-
decarbonization of the energy system and the electrification  sions that are accounted for as indirect emissions (Scope 3). 
of the energy demand. As a result, this reduces the green- In particular, the emissions connected to the use of electricity 
house gas emissions along the entire value chain. sold to customers equalled around 29.0 mil t  of CO, where-
eq 2
Enel’s electricity production from fossil fuels (mainly coal and  as those related to gas sold equalled 23.9 mil t  of CO. Enel 
eq 2
gas) has traditionally represented the main source of green- regularly monitors these emissions and adopts measures 
house gas emissions. In particular, in 2019 the direct emissions  aimed at minimising them. In particular, Enel is committed 
(Scope 1) related to generation from fossil fuels were around  to reducing its indirect emissions associated with the sale of 
69.4 mil t CO, whereas indirect emissions (Scope 3) related  natural gas on the retail market 16% by 2030, with respect to 
2
to the extraction and transport of fuels were equal to 4.0 mil t the 2017 values. This goal has been certified by the Science 
eq 
of CO (considering also those relating to the transport of raw  Based Targets initiative.
2
materials and waste). Enel is minimising this impact by accel- Finally, Enel offers its customers sustainable energy solutions 
erating the decommissioning of coal plants, with a reduction  to reduce the carbon footprint of their energy consumption 
of capacity in 2019 equal to 4.1 GW. In parallel, the Group is in- in a wide range of sectors, including transport, buildings as 
creasing the development of renewable capacity that, together  well as industrial processes and services. For example, with 
with the contribution of nuclear generation, has avoided 77 mil  Enel X the Group is promoting the deployment of charging 
t of CO emissions. Furthermore, Enel is actively committed to  infrastructures for electrical vehicles (79,565 charging points 
2
the development of energy storage systems that support the  installed in 2019), the development of energy efficiency solu-
integration of renewable capacity, with a total installed capac- tions, distributed generation, consultancy services, smart 
ity of 110 MW in 2019. The decarbonization of the energy mix  public lighting and circular cities.
46 Sustainability Report 2019