The Enel governance model  
to tackle climate change
102-18 102-19 102-20 102-26 102-29 102-30 102-31 102-35 102-36
Enel’s organisational and corporate governance model de- to approve those documents. 12 meetings held by the 
fines specific tasks and responsibilities for which the Com- Committee in 2019, in 6 of which they addressed is-
pany’s main governance bodies are responsible, guarantee- sues connected with climate and their impact on strat-
ing that the risks and opportunities related to climate change  egies, operations and sustainability.
are suitably taken into consideration during all important  In 2019, the company also organised a special induction 
company decision-making processes. program to provide the directors with an understanding of 
the sectors in which the Group operates, including issues 
related to climate change and the related impact on indus-
Competences of corporate  trial strategy and corporate operations.
Chairman - In the exercise of the function of stimulating 
bodies in relation to climate 
and coordinating the activities of the Board of Directors, 
change  and ascertaining that the Board’s resolutions are carried 
out, the Chairman plays a proactive role in the process of 
approving and monitoring corporate and sustainability strat-
The Board of Directors of Enel SpA is responsible for 
egies, for which the fight against climate change is a prior-
examining and approving the corporate strategy, including 
ity. In addition, during 2019 the Chairman also chaired the 
the Group’s annual budget and business plan, which incor-
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee. 
porate the main objectives and actions that the Company 
Chief Executive Officer and General Manager - He is 
plans to undertake to lead the energy transition and tackle 
responsible  for  defining  and  supervising  a  sustainable 
climate change. 14 meetings held by the Board of Direc-
business model, delineating a strategy for leading energy 
tors in 2019, in 8 of which they addressed issues connect-
transition towards a low-carbon model. Furthermore he 
ed with climate and their impact on strategies, operations 
represents Enel in various initiatives that deal with climate 
and sustainability.
change, holding positions of leadership in world-renowned 
The Board of Directors is supported mainly by two board-lev-
institutions.
el committees for the topic of climate change: 
>  Corporate Governance and Sustainability Commit-
tee - It assists the Board of Directors in assessment 
The Enel organisational 
and decision-making activities concerning, among oth-
er things, sustainability, including any relevant climate  model for management  
issues connected with the operations of the Company 
of climate-related issues
and its interaction with all stakeholders. 8 meetings 
held by the Committee in 2019, in 5 of which they ad-
dressed issues connected with climate and their im- Enel has a management team that assigns the responsibilities 
pact on strategies, operations and sustainability;  related to climate topics to the specific Functions that contrib-
>  Control and Risk Committee - It supports the Board  ute towards guiding Enel’s leadership in energy transition. Each 
of Directors in performing its duties regarding internal  area is responsible for managing the risks and opportunities 
control and risk management. It also examines the  related to climate change for their own area of competence.
contents of the corporate disclosure on climate issues  The Holding Functions are responsible for consolidating 
of the Annual Report and the Sustainability Report, is- the scenario analysis and managing the strategic and finan-
suing a prior opinion to the Board of Directors, called  cial planning process aimed towards promoting a sustain-
48 Sustainability Report 2019