s
ar
pill
ur 
O
ss
ee
nn
oo
bb
kk
cc
aa
bb
G G 
SS
EE
able business model by putting the fight against climate  Incentives system 
e
change at the centre of its strategy.  ot
The Global Business Lines are responsible for the devel- concerning climate change cal n
gi
o
opment of activities related to promoting renewable gener- ol
d
o
ation, the optimisation of heat capacity, the digitalization of  The  Company’s  remuneration  policy  includes  different  h
et
M
the electricity grid and the development of business solu- mechanisms for the purpose of progressing towards energy 
tions that enable energy transition and the fight against cli- transition, in particular: 
mate change. In 2019, Enel Green Power and Global Ther- >  a variable short-term remuneration (MBO) that can in-
mal Generation merged, creating Global Power Generation,  clude objectives relative to the specific company func-
which confirms the guiding role of the Enel Group in energy  tion of each manager. For example, they can include 
transition, by means of an integrated process of decarboniza- objectives related to the development of renewable en-
tion and the sustainable development of renewable capacity.  ergies for the manager in the Global Power Generation 
x
di
The Global Service Functions are responsible for adopting  Business Line or related to energy transition solutions in  en
p
p
sustainable criteria, including climate change, in supply chain  the Enel X Global Business Line. Furthermore, the new  A
& 
management and developing digital solutions that develop  MBO system assigned to the CEO for 2020 envisions  d 
n
o
the development of technologies enabling energy transition  the addition of a new quantitative climate objective con- n B
e
and the fight against climate change. nected to the growth of the renewable net installed ca- Gre
On a local level, the Regions and Countries have the task of  pacity in comparison to the total net installed capacity, 
promoting decarbonization and guiding the energy transition  which represents the 15% short-term variable retribu-
towards a low carbon business model, within their areas of  tion;
responsibility. Furthermore, the Europe and Euro-Mediterra-  >  a long-term variable remuneration that, starting in 2018, 
nean Affairs Function is responsible for defining the Group’s  includes a quantitative climate objective, that is, the re-
position on climate change, low carbon policies and the regu- duction of Enel Group CO emissions per kWh  over the 
2 eq
lation of the international carbon market on a European level. next three years, which represents 10% of total long-
Additionally, the Group Investments Committee, chaired  term variable retribution;
by the Chief Executive Officer, grants approval for the ex-
penses for investments related to business development. 
This committee also has the task of guaranteeing that all 
investments are fully in line with the Group’s commitment 
to promoting a low carbon business model and reaching de-
carbonization by 2050.
Commitment to the fight against climate change 49