s
ar
pill
ur 
O
Climate scenarios
The Group develops short, medium and long-term scenarios  are taken to combat climate change, a so-called “busi-
for the energy industry and for macroeconomic and finan- ness as usual scenario”. In this scenario, a mean global 
cial conditions in order to support its strategic and industrial  temperature increase of about 4.3 °C above pre-industrial  eses
nn
oo
planning, the evaluation of investments and extraordinary  levels is forecast for 2081-2100. kbkb
cc
aa
corporate transactions. The role of climate change in these  In the RCP 8.5 climate projections, the Mediterranean and  G bG b
SS
scenarios is increasingly important in terms of: Central/South America will experience a significant increase  EE
>  acute events (heat waves, flooding, hurricanes, etc.)  in average temperatures and substantial decline in precipi-
and their potential impact on industrial assets; tation, with the effects becoming more pronounced in the 
>  chronic phenomena related to structural changes in the  second half of the century and the impact increasing up to 
climate, such as the rising trend in temperatures, rising  2100. In the RCP 2.6 scenario, the effects will be similar 
sea levels, etc., which give rise to changes in the output  but less intense, with the trend slowing in the second half 
of generation plants and in electricity consumption pro- of the century, thereby producing a substantial differential 
files in the residential and commercial sectors; between the two scenarios in 2100.
e
>  transition of the various industrial and business sectors  The scenarios are global in nature. Accordingly, in order to  not
al 
towards a green economy characterised by ever lower  determine their effects in the areas of relevance for the  gic
o
emissions levels. Group, a collaborative initiative has been started with the  dol
o
h
The issues connected with future trends in climate varia- Earth Sciences department of the International Center for  et
M
bles (in terms of acute and chronic phenomena) define the  Theoretical Physics (ICTP) of Trieste. As part of this collab-
so-called “physical scenario”, while the issues associated  oration, the ICTP provides projections for the major climate 
with the industrial and economic transition towards solu- variables with a grid resolution of 50 km2 and a forecast ho-
tions to reduce atmospheric concentrations of CO  are the  rizon running from 2030 to 2050. The main variables are av-
2
characteristic elements of the “transition scenario”. The  erage temperatures, rainfall and snowfall and solar radiation. 
adoption of these scenarios and their integration into corpo- The first phase of the study conducted in 2019 involved Italy 
rate processes takes account of the guidelines of the TCFD  and Spain, with the consequent definition of a preliminary  dix
n
and enables the assessment of the risks and opportunities  physical scenario.  pe
p
connected with climate change. & A
Italy nd 
o
B
Acute phenomena: in the 2030-2050 period, heat waves  en 
e
The physical climate   are expected to increase appreciably both in terms of fre- Gr
quency and geographical distribution, especially in the south-
scenario
ern regions of the country. In these scenarios, the intensity 
of extreme rain and snowfall events increases sharply, but 
Among the climate projections developed by the Intergovern- their frequency declines compared with historic trends.
mental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) on a global scale, the  Chronic phenomena: the average annual temperature is 
Group has selected two representing a specific level of emis- expected to increase over the 2030-2050 period in both the 
sions (the so-called “Representative Concentration Pathway”): RCP 2.6 and 8.5 scenarios. In the RCP 8.5 scenario, the tem-
>  Representative Concentration Pathway 2.6 (RCP 2.6):  perature is expected to be an average of 0.4 °C compared 
compatible with global warming of less than 2 °C above  with the RCP 2.6 scenario in the 2030-2050 period, with the 
pre-industrial levels by 2100, or an average of about 1 °C  differential then widening significantly in the second half of 
in 2081-2100; the century. Chronic changes in temperature can be ana-
>  Representative Concentration Pathway 8.5 (RCP 8.5):  lysed to obtain information on the potential effects on cool-
compatible with a scenario where no particular measures  ing and heating demand in local energy systems. In terms 
Commitment to the fight against climate change 51