s
ar
pill
ur 
O
sions, the efficiency of the energy system, the decar- in electricity demand in the Spain compared with Italy mainly 
bonization of the electricity sector, the reduction of  reflects to the narrower scope for the future electrification 
oil consumption, etc. For Italy and Spain, reference is  of consumption, as it is currently already largely electrified 
made to those countries’ integrated National Energy  as a consequence of the presence of nuclear power in the 
and Climate Plans (NECPs), which are also approved at  country. These effects only reflect the long-term impact of 
the European level, while outside Europe, reference is  temperature on electricity demand and the inertial evolution 
made to the respective national energy programs of the  of the national energy system. They do not consider the re- ss
ee
nn
oo
countries involved. percussions of climate change on economies underscored  bb
kk
cc
In order to define the transition scenario for the electricity  in the IPCC’s special report on global warming, which could  baba
G G 
sector, the Group considers the elements described above  also have indirect effects on economies and, therefore, on  ESES
(physical scenarios, assumptions about the macro and en- electricity demand.
ergy context, regulatory developments) as prerequisites for 
the assessment of future projections of electricity demand, 
Effects on energy demand 
electricity generation, renewables, etc. (2030-2050)
In this context, the effect of temperature on electricity de-
Italy
mand in the long term (2030-2050) has been estimated. Ital- ～+5%
ian electricity demand is provisionally forecast to increase  RCP 2.6
e
on average by up to 5%, due to the combined effect of the  RCP 8.5 not
al 
chronic increase in temperature and the transition of the sys- c
～7% ～3% ogi
tem towards greater electrification of energy consumption.  ol
d
Up to +10% o
Moreover, in the RCP 8.5 physical scenario the probability of  Spain eth
extremely hot years increases, leading to a future increase  ～+2% M
of up to 10% in electricity demand, together with the risks  RCP 2.6
associated with more frequent extreme weather events.  RCP 8.5
In the case of Spain, however, over the same time horizon 
 ～ 2% ～2%
the chronic effects would involve an average increase in de-
Up to +4%
mand of around 2% and, in the possible peak year of the 
RCP 8.5 scenario, it could reach +4%. The smaller increase  ∆ peak year Average x
di
n
e
p
p
A
& 
d 
The strategy to tackle  on
B
n 
e
e
climate change Gr
102-15 103-2 103-3 201-2
The strategy of the Enel Group has proven its ability to cre- against climate change at the centre of its strategy.
ate sustainable long-term value, integrating the themes of  As a result, the 2020-2022 Strategic Plan is based on a re-
sustainability and close attention to climate change issues. newed set of “purpose driven” strategic pillars that repre-
The Group is among the leaders guiding the energy transi- sent the main industry trends connected to energy transi-
tion through the decarbonization of electricity generation  tion and the fight against climate change, also identifying 
and the electrification of energy consumption, which rep- the main transformation enablers. The trends in decarbon-
resent opportunities both to increase value creation and  ization and electrification, which are naturally connected 
to contribute positively to more rapid achievement of the  with the generation and sale of electricity, will be enabled 
Sustainable Development Goals set by the United National  by the development of increasingly digital grids and the 
(SDGs) in the 2030 Agenda, placing SDG 13 for the fight  evolution towards a platform-based business model.
Commitment to the fight against climate change 53