s
ar
pill
ur 
O
investment for end use, which in 2030-2040 should be 
almost 5 times that in 2018.
The opportunities deriving from this trend will involve a 
broad spectrum of activities, ranging from distributed gen-
eration to energy efficiency upgrading for buildings and 
electric vehicle infrastructure, thus supporting the growth 
of companies that move first. Enel’s plan seeks to achieve  eses
nn
oo
a stable market share in the free markets of European  bb
kk
cc
aa
The target for increasing renewables capacity is expected  countries, supported by a 65% increase in the number of  bb
G G 
SS
to rise by 14.1 GW (11.6 GW considering exclusively the net  customers and 21% growth in volumes sold on the free  EE
installed capacity) in 2020-2022 and will be achieved through  market in 2022.
a number of strategic lines of development: Further impetus to the electrification process will come 
>  5.4 GW will be developed in countries such as Italy,  from  electric  mobility,  with  the  installation  of  about 
Spain and Chile, where new investments in renewable  736,000 recharging points by 2022, and more generally 
energy will support the decarbonization of the genera- from the new services offered by Enel X, which will 
tion fleet; permit developing business models oriented towards pro-
>  5.1 GW will mainly be developed in Brazil and the Unit- moting the decarbonization of other industrial sectors and 
e
ed States, where an increasing number of large custom- services. not
al 
ers are moving from the regulated market to purchase  gic
o
electricity from renewable sources developed primarily  ol
d
o
h
through long-term power purchase agreements (PPA); et
Enabling infrastructure  M
>  3.6 GW will be developed to support our presence in re-
cently opened markets or in entirely new markets, both 
directly and through joint ventures. In order to adequately support value creation from these 
Thanks to these initiatives, 60% of the Group’s total installed  two macro trends, the plan identifies electricity distribu-
capacity in 2022 will be renewable. tion network as one of the main enablers. The evolution of 
In order to support the decarbonization process, the plan  the role of distributors will be a key factor in supporting the 
also envisages a significant contribution from the new flexi- greater complexity involved with distributed renewables  x
di
n
bility services provided by Enel X. Demand response capaci- generation and electric mobility, in managing the digitaliza- e
p
p
ty will expand from 6.3 GW in 2019 to over 10.1 GW in 2022,  tion process driven by innovative services offered to cus- & A
while storage services will increase from the current 110  tomers and in ensuring the resilience of the energy system  nd 
o
B
MW to about 440 MW in 2022. in view of the impacts of climate change. As a result, Enel  n 
e
e
will continue to invest in network digitalization between  Gr
2020 and 2022, increasing the number of second genera-
Electriﬁcation tion smart meters from 13.1 million to 28.8 million. 
Electrification, which means the substitution of electricity 
Platforms and ecosystems
for other commodities in energy consumption, will play a 
central role in the Enel Group strategy. 
In line with the IEA sustainable development scenario,  Enel will adopt a platform-based model on a global level 
the share of electricity in final global energy consumption  for its grids, in retail and in Enel X, which will make it pos-
should reach 43%3 in 2040 (from 24% in 2018). This sce- sible to standardise and optimise the operating processes 
nario assumes a significant increase in the average annual  by supporting the obtainment of the efficiencies set forth in 
the Plan, and promote the establishment of new business 
opportunities that promote an energy model that is free from 
3 Figure referred to “useful energy”, intended as the energy that is available 
to end-users to satisfy their needs (source IEA WEO 2019 SDS). greenhouse gas emissions.
Commitment to the fight against climate change 55