Main risks and opportunities 
linked to climate change 
102-15 103-2 103-3 201-2
The energy transition towards a more sustainable model 
The identiﬁcation, assessment 
characterised by a gradual reduction of CO emissions has 
2
and management of risks and 
risks and opportunities connected both with changes in the 
regulatory and legal context and trends in technology devel-
opportunities 
opment, electrification and the consequent market devel-
opments.
The process of defining the Group’s strategy is accompa- Consistent with the climate and transition scenarios used by 
nied by a careful analysis of the risks and opportunities con- Enel to determine risks and opportunities, the main transi-
nected to it, also including the aspects related to climate  tion-related phenomena are beginning to emerge in relation 
change. to customer behaviour, industrial strategies being adopted 
Every year, before approving the Strategic Plan, the Control  in all economic sectors and regulatory policies. Between 
and Risk Committee, which is appointed by the Board of  2020 and 2030, the transition trends will become visible in 
Directors, is presented with a quantitative analysis of the  response to the evolution of the context: the Enel Group has 
risks and opportunities related to the Group’s strategic posi- decided to facilitate the transition, and is therefore ready to 
tioning, which includes aspects related to the climate, such  seize all the opportunities that may arise from an acceler-
as regulatory factors and weather-climatic events. ation in that transition. As discussed previously, our stra-
Climate change and the energy transition will impact Group  tegic choices, which are already strongly oriented towards 
activities in a variety of ways. In order to identify the main  the energy transition, with more than 90% of investment 
types of risk and opportunity and their impact on the busi- dedicated to the transition, enable us to incorporate risk mit-
ness associated with them in a structured manner consist- igation and opportunity maximisation “by design”, adopting 
ent with the TCFD, we have adopted a framework that ex- a positioning that takes account of the medium and long-
plicitly represents the main relationships between scenario  term phenomena we have identified. The strategic choices 
variables and types of risk and opportunity, specifying the  are accompanied by the operating best practices adopted 
strategic and operational approaches to managing them,  by the Group.
comprising mitigation and adaptation measures. The framework illustrated on the next page also highlights 
There are two main macro-categories of risks/opportunities:  the relationships that link the physical and transition scenari-
those connected with developments in physical variables  os with the potential impact on the Group’s business. These 
and those linked to the evolution of the transition scenarios. effects can be assessed from the perspective of three time 
Physical risks are divided in turn between acute (i.e. ex- horizons: the short term (1-3 years), in which sensitivity 
treme events) and chronic, with the former linked to ex- analyses based on the Strategic Plan presented to investors 
tremely intense meteorological conditions and the latter to  in 2019 can be performed; the medium term (until 2030), 
more gradual but structural changes in climate conditions.  in which it is possible to assess the effects of the energy 
Extreme events expose the Group to the risk of prolonged  transition; and the long terms (2030-2050), in which chronic 
unavailability of assets and infrastructure, the cost of restor- structural changes in the climate should begin to emerge. 
ing service, customer disruptions and so on. Chronic chang- The main sources of risk and opportunity identified, the best 
es in climate conditions expose the Group to other risks or  practices for the operational management of weather and 
opportunities: for example, structural changes in tempera- climate phenomena, and the qualitative and quantitative im-
ture could cause changes in electricity demand and have an  pact assessments performed to date are discussed below. 
impact on output, while alterations in rainfall or wind con- As declared by the TCFD, the process of disclosing informa-
ditions could impact the Group’s business by increasing or  tion on the risks and opportunities connected with climate 
decreasing potential electricity generation. change will be gradual and incremental from year to year.
56 Sustainability Report 2019