s
ar
pill
ur 
O
SCENARIO  RISK &
TIME MANAGEMENT 
PHENOM- OPPORTUNITY  DESCRIPTION IMPACT
HORIZON APPROACH
ENA CATEGORY
Acute  From the  Extreme Risk: especially extreme  Extreme events can damage  The Group adopts best practices to manage 
physical short term  events  weather/climate events. assets  and  interrupt  opera- the restoration of service as quickly as possi-
(1-3 years) tions. ble. It also works to implement investments 
ss
in resilience (for Italy). With regard to risk  nene
oo
assessment in insurance, the Group has a  kbkb
cc
loss prevention program for property risk that  aa
bb
also assesses the main exposures to natural  G G 
SS
events. Looking forward, the assessments  EE
will also include the potential impacts of long-
term trends in the most significant climate 
variables. 
Chronic  From the long  Market  Risk/opportunity:  in- Electricity demand is also af- The Group’s geographical and technological 
physical term  crease  or  decrease  in  fected by temperature, whose  diversification means that the impact of 
(2030-2050) electricity  demand;  fluctuation can impact our busi- changes (positive and negative) in a single var-
increase or decrease in  ness. iable is mitigated at the global level. In order to 
electricity production. ensure that operations always take account of  e
weather and climate phenomena, the Group  not
adopts a range of practices such as, for exam- cal 
gi
ple, weather forecasting, real-time monitoring  o
ol
of plants and long-term climate scenarios.  d
o
h
et
M
Transition From the Policy  Risk/opportunity:  pol- Policies concerning the energy  The Group is minimizing its exposure to risks 
medium term  & Regulation icies on CO prices and  transition and resilience can im- through  the  progressive  decarbonization 
2
(2022-2030) emissions, energy tran- pact the volume of and returns  of its generation fleet. The Group’s strategic 
sition incentives, greater  on investments.  actions, which are focused on investment in 
scope for investment in  renewables, networks and customers, enable 
renewables  and  resil- it to mitigate potential threats and exploit the 
ience regulation.  opportunities connected with the energy tran-
sition. The Group is also actively contributing 
to the development of public policies. x
di
n
e
p
p
Transition From the  Market Risk/opportunity:  Considering  two  alternative  The Group is maximizing opportunities by  A
& 
medium term  changes in the prices of  transition scenarios, the Group  adopting a strategy founded on the energy  d 
n
(2022-2030) commodities and ener- assesses the impact of trends  transition and the rapid expansion of renew- o
B
gy, evolution of energy  in the proportion of renewa- able generation and the electrification of  n 
e
mix,  changes  in  retail  ble sources in the energy mix,  energy consumption. Gre
consumption,  changes  electrification and the penetra-
in competitive environ- tion of EVs to estimate their 
ment. potential impacts.
Transition From the  Product  Opportunity:  increase  Trends in the electrification of  The Group is maximizing opportunities thanks 
medium term  & Services in margins and greater  transportation  and  residential  to its strong positioning in new businesses 
(2022-2030) scope  for  investment  consumption  will  potentially  and services.
as  a  consequence  of  have an impact on Enel’s busi-
the transition in terms  ness.
of greater penetration of 
new electrical technolo-
From the  Technology  gies for residential con- Considering  two  alternative  The Group is maximizing opportunities thanks 
medium term  sumption  and  electric  transition scenarios, the Group  to its strong positioning in global networks.
(2022-2030) transportation. assesses the potential opportu-
nities to scale up current busi-
nesses in response to trends 
in the electrification of trans-
portation.
Commitment to the fight against climate change 57