102-14
Climate change, global population growth, technological ac- support electrification of consumption, sustain the fight against 
celeration and shifting geopolitical balances are among the  climate change while ensuring a constant supply of sustain-
main forces that are shaping the ongoing watershed moment.  able, accessible energy. This migration of IT services to the 
Today’s scenario has been made even more complex by the  cloud allows us to face the pandemic with flexible, remote 
recent outbreak of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic in vari- working methods that minimize the risk of contagion, without 
ous parts of the world. In response to this emergency, we have  an adverse effect on operations. We also remain committed to 
acted promptly and with determination to reduce the risk of  developing a business model in line with the goals of the 
contagion to a minimum, while ensuring continuity of the ser- Paris Agreement to keep the average increase in global tem-
vice we provide and the security of the power system in all the  perature below 2 °C above pre-industrial levels and to pursue 
countries we operate in. These concrete actions, supported by  efforts to limit this increase to 1.5 °C. We have therefore set a 
technology and innovation, allow us to bring the best of our  new objective for 2030, which envisages a 70% reduction of 
experiences to bear in different contexts and to adopt the most  CO emissions per kWh compared to 2017 levels, as certified 
2
effective solutions rapidly and uniformly, thereby ensuring that  by the SBTi (Science-Based Targets initiative), a global initiative 
the orderly performance of our work in service of communities  that validates company decarbonization strategies. A signifi-
remains sustainable, even in such adverse conditions. cant step towards achieving the goal of full decarbonization of 
Sustainability is a driving force that helps us tackle challeng- our generation capacity by 2050, supported by investments in 
es and work together to forge a new model of development  renewables’ growth and in the progressive reduction of power 
that leaves no one behind. To Enel, this is a commitment  generated from thermoelectric sources.
that we have sought to instill into our purpose: “Open Power  The centrality of individuals and communities, a sustaina-
for a brighter future. We empower sustainable progress”.  ble supply chain, sound governance, occupational health 
We wish to contribute to a world in which energy is always at  and safety and a focus on the environment reinforce and 
the service of the community to drive development, growth  complete the Group’s sustainability strategy. Thanks to the 
and a higher quality of life for all. We are convinced that, in or- energy, know-how and common vision of Enel’s people, we 
der to generate lasting profit, value must be shared within the  are capable of managing the constantly evolving complexi-
entire community around us. This is why we have prioritized  ties, while maintaining our commitments to the market. In 
addressing climate change, a just energy transition and contin- an era of change, the transition needs to be just, and for this 
ually ethical, transparent relations with all our stakeholders. In  to occur, the priority must be supporting individuals by pro-
our vision, progress springs from ideas and co-creation and is  moting training and the development of skills, diversity and 
nourished by values such as trust, responsibility, proactivity  inclusion. With upskilling and reskilling programs, we are 
and innovation. able to advance existing skillsets, while also helping talented 
With this in mind, in 2015 we revolutionized our growth mod- and capable individuals grow, by creating new roles to meet 
el, adopting a strategy that puts sustainability at the centre of  the needs of ceaseless technological progress and innovation 
the value chain, makes digitalization a key element at all levels  processes. Training increasingly becomes a partner in the 
and in all processes within the Company and sees renewable  growth of all individuals, stimulating ambition, self-study 
energy as the driver of growth. Our 2019 results clearly reflect  and a proactive spirit, while also sharing a wealth of knowl-
the steps taken and the Company’s profound transformation.  edge, attitudes and passions. 
Today we are leaders in all the main areas of the energy  Adopting a sustainable strategy and business model that 
transition and a global operator in over 30 countries with  are centered on innovation and circularity allows us to face 
approximately 70 million customers, 2.2 million km of  the climate emergency and guarantee growth in a context 
grids and 46 GW of managed1 renewable capacity. An- of limited resources, while ensuring social inclusion and 
other milestone we reached in 2019 is that, for the first time,  cohesion and promoting a perfect alignment of values, 
installed capacity from renewables exceeded that of thermoe- the economy and finance. Therefore, making it possible to 
lectric sources. We are a more efficient and remunerative com- achieve lasting, shared success, navigating the discontinu-
pany, with a stronger ability to adapt rapidly to change and inno- ities we are experiencing this year and creating new devel-
vate, including with financial instruments, where we launched  opment opportunities, not only for individuals but also for 
the world’s first bonds directly linked to the UN sustainability  society as a whole.
goals (SDG-linked bonds). A commitment that will continue 
into the 2020-2022 period, contributing to the achievement of 
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. We  Patrizia Grieco
Chairman of the Board of Directors
are preparing our grid infrastructure and customer manage-
ment processes to best meet the challenges of the future by 
investing in the digital transformation. Having completed the 
migration of all IT services to the cloud is a crucial step towards 
developing platform-based business models that will help us 
Francesco Starace
Chief Executive Officer and General Manager
1 In addition to installed capacity, this includes capacity attributable to associa-
tes and joint ventures (approximately 3.7 GW).
Letter to stakeholders