s
ar
pill
ur 
O
ss
ee
nn
oo
bb
kk
cc
aa
bb
G G 
SS
EE
investments include the targeted replacement of un- >  the third phase is the “Response” phase, meaning 
e
insulated lines with insulated conductors, increasing  the operational response capacity for a specific ex- ot
n
the number of alternative routes to restore power  treme event, which is directly correlated with the abil- cal 
gi
o
and the use of remote control systems to isolate the  ity to mobilise operational resources in the field and  ol
d
o
section of the grid affected by the fault as quickly as  with the availability of grid backup and redundancies; eth
M
possible;  >  the final phase is the “Recovery” phase, which seeks 
>  again in Italy, the measures to increase resilience are  to restore an acceptable and safe level of service in 
contained in the three-year investment plan of E-Dis- the shortest possible time.
tribuzione and are designed to limit the risk of ser- Response and Recovery are complementary. The philos-
vice interruptions caused by the main critical factors  ophy that guides interventions in these two phases is that 
that  may  impact  E-Distribuzione’s  medium-voltage  exceptional resources must be used to deal with excep-
grid. The measures for the 2017-2021 period involve  tional events, and that all the available resources prepared 
x
di
some 4 million customers and over 7,000 km of medi- in the readiness phase must therefore be mobilised. The  en
p
p
um-voltage lines;  assessment of the damage caused to the grid is the first  A
& 
>  a subsequent “Readiness” phase that includes all  activity to be performed. Enel promptly activates a task  nd 
o
measures to improve the timeliness with which po- force of specialised technicians and deploys special equip- n B
e
tentially risky events are identified, ensuring coordi- ment (helicopters and generators) to restore service, and  Gre
nation with the Civil Protection Department and local  mobilises personnel from other areas/countries. Great at-
officials, as well as to prepare intervention measures  tention is paid in these phases to communication with all 
once a fault has occurred. Examples of measures in- the players involved and the determination of the most 
clude systems for forecasting meteorological events  effective strategy to manage the repair of power lines and 
and their impact on the grid, the provisioning of ad- the restoration of service to customers.
equate equipment to build temporary plant or emer- In this regard, the Enel Group in Italy is a permanent guest 
gency grid structures, the preparation of operational  of the Operations Committee of the National Civil Protec-
plans and the organisation of exercises. One of the  tion Department and has signed protocols with both the 
most important measures is certainly the definition  National Civil Protection Department and Regional Civil 
of agreements for the mobilisation of designated ex- Protection Departments in order to facilitate communica-
traordinary resources to respond to an emergency.  tion in emergency situations, joint training and any other 
These include both internal resources and the re- initiative that makes collaboration with the civil protection 
sources of contracting companies operating in other  system more effective and rapid. 
areas of a country and/or in other countries; 
Commitment to the fight against climate change 61