Identiï¬cation, assessment 
strategy, decarbonization and the upgrading of 
and management of   enabling infrastructure.
>  Risks: obstacles to achieving energy transition 
transition-related risks  
targets due to regulatory systems that do no ef-
and opportunities  fectively support the energy transition, delays in 
permitting, no upgrading of the electricity grid, 
etc.
As regards the risks and opportunities associated with transi- >  Resilience regulation To improve standards or intro-
tion variables, Enel uses the different reference scenarios in  duce ad hoc mechanisms to incentivise investments 
combination with the various elements that make up the risk  in resilience in the context of the evolution of climate 
identification process (e.g. competitive context, long-term vi- change.
sion of the industry, materiality analysis, etc.). Priority is given  >  Opportunities: benefits from investments that 
to the most material phenomena. The main risks and oppor- reduce service quality and continuity risks for the 
tunities identified within this framework are described below. community.
>  Risks: in the case of especially severe extreme 
Policy and Regulation 
events  with  a  greater-than-expected  impact, 
>  Limits on emissions and carbon pricing: the en- there is a risk that recovery could be slower than 
actment of laws and regulations that introduce more  planned, with an associated reputational risk.
stringent  emissions  limits  by  government  action  >  Financial measures for the energy transition: In-
(non-market driven) and market-based mechanisms,  centives for the energy transition through appropri-
such as a carbon tax in non-ETS (Emissions Trading  ate policy measures and financial instruments, which 
System) sectors or an expansion of the ETS in other  should be capable of supporting an investment frame-
sectors. work and a long-term, credible and stable positioning 
>  Opportunities: command & control regulations  of policy-makers. Introduction of rules and/or public 
and  market-based  mechanisms  strengthening  and private financial instruments (e.g. funds, mecha-
CO  price signals to foster investment in car- nisms, taxonomies, benchmarks) aimed at integrating 
2
bon-free technologies. sustainability into financial markets and public finance 
>  Risk: lack of a coordinated approach among the  instruments.
various actors and policy-makers involved and  >  Opportunities: the creation of new markets and 
limited effectiveness of the policy instruments  sustainable finance products consistent with the 
deployed, with an impact on the speed of the  investment framework, activating greater public 
trend towards electrification and decarbonization  resources for decarbonization and access to fi-
in the various sectors, compared with a decisive  nancial resources in line with energy transition 
group strategy focused on the energy transition.  objectives and the related impact on costs and on 
>  Incentives for the energy transition: development  finance charges; introduction of subsidised sup-
incentives and opportunities with a view to the en- port tools (funds and calls) for the transition.
ergy  transition,  consequently  guiding  the  energy  >  Risks: actions and instruments are not sufficient 
system towards the use of low-emission energy re- to provide incentives consistent with an overall 
sources as the mainstream approach in the energy  positioning tailored to the energy transition, un-
mixes of countries, greater electrification of energy  certainty or slowdown in the introduction of new 
consumption, energy efficiency, flexibility of the elec- instruments and rules due to the deterioration in 
trical system and upgrading of infrastructure, with a  the public finances or differences in application 
positive impact on the return on investment and new  in the geographic areas in which the Group oper-
business opportunities. ates.
>  Opportunities:  additional  volumes  and  great-
er margins due to additional investment in the 
electricity industry, in line with the electrification 
62 Sustainability Report 2019