s
ar
pill
ur 
O
ss
ee
nn
oo
bb
kk
cc
aa
bb
G G 
SS
EE
Market >  Opportunities: increase in electricity consump-
e
>  Market dynamics, such as those connected with  tion.  ot
n
the variability of commodity prices, the increase in  >  Risks: additional competition in this market seg- cal 
gi
o
electricity consumption due to the energy transition  ment. ol
d
o
and the penetration of renewables, have an impact  >  Electric  mobility  and  electrification  of  industri- eth
M
on business drivers, with effects on margins and on  al energy consumption: Use of more efficient and 
electricity generation and sales volumes. effective modes of transportation from the point of 
>  Opportunities: positive effects associated with  view of climate change, with a special focus on the 
the growth in electricity demand and the greater  development of electric mobility and charging infra-
room for renewables and all sources of flexibility. structure; electrification of large-scale industrial ener-
>  Risks: less room in the market for residual ther- gy users.
mal generation technologies in the short term.  >  Opportunities: Positive effects of the increase in  x
di
However, as the penetration of renewables in  electricity demand and greater margins connect- en
p
p
the electricity mix increases, the system could  ed with the penetration of electric transportation. A
& 
require greater flexibility, including regulated gas- The Group has already taken strategic actions to mitigate  nd 
o
fired generation. potential risks and exploit the opportunities offered by  n B
e
the energy transition. Thanks to our industrial and finan- Gre
Technology   cial strategy incorporating ESG factors, an integrated ap-
>  Gradual penetration of new technologies such as  proach shaped by sustainability and innovation makes it 
storage and demand response; digital lever to transform  possible to create shared long-term value. 
operating models and “platform” business models. A strategy focused on complete decarbonization and the 
>  Opportunities: investments in developing technol- energy transition makes the Group resilient to the risks as-
ogy solutions. sociated with the introduction of more ambitious policies 
for emissions reductions and maximises opportunities for 
Products and Services the development of renewable generation, infrastructure 
>  Electrification of residential energy consumption:  and enabling technologies.
With the gradual electrification of end uses, the pen- Unlike chronic climate impacts, developments in the tran-
etration of products with lower costs and a smaller  sition scenario could have impacts in the short and medi-
impact in terms of residential emissions will expand  um term (by 2030) as well.
(for example, the use of heat pumps for heating and  As  with  climate  variables,  the  current  Business  Plan 
cooling). (2020-2022) can be tested for its sensitivity to the fac-
Commitment to the fight against climate change 63