tors potentially influenced by the transition scenario, with  ate climate scenario between RCP 8.5 and RCP 2.6. 
particular regard to the price of CO  (ETS). Examining the  The “current policies” scenario considered for the 
2
main transition variables, the price of CO  appears to be  two countries, while among the less ambitious sce-
2
an especially reliable driver of regulatory measures that  narios of RCP 2.6, represents a plausible outlook in 
could accelerate the transition process. that it derives from policies that have already been 
To assess the impact of possible changes in this driver,  approved and which will probably not be disregarded. 
the effects of a potential change of +/-10% in the CO   At a global level, however, if the world’s leading coun-
2
price for Italy and Spain are determined. This price change  tries do not adopt effective decarbonization policies, 
would modify the equilibrium price of both wholesale mar- instead pursuing policies that produce no change or 
kets, with repercussions on the margins of Global Power  actually worsen conditions, the “current policies” ap-
Generation for both thermal and renewable plants. proach could still lead to a climate scenario in line with 
To quantify the risks and opportunities engendered by the  RCP 8.5;
energy transition in the medium term, two scenarios have  >  “Accelerated policies” scenario: based on poten-
been considered for Italy and Spain: tially rapid transition policies aimed at achieving CO  
2
>  “Current policies” scenario: based on the current  reduction targets that are presumably consistent with 
energy transition policies of Italy and Spain (PNIEC),  the RCP 2.6 scenario. This scenario also incorporates 
which are presumably consistent with an intermedi- an increase in energy efficiency and a drive to electri-
QUANTIFICATION - RANGE
RISK &  GLOBAL 
SPHCEENNOARMIOEN A OCAPPTOEGROTURNYITY  DESCRIPTION THIOMREI ZON1 IMPACT DESCRIPTION BAUFFSEINCTEESDS LINE  SCOPE Q- TUYAPNET OIFFI CIMATPIAOCNT    UDOPSWIDNES/I D   E < 1E0U0R MOISL  100E-U30R0O MSIL  > 3E0U0R MOISL  AIMCCPEALCETR WATITEHD  
TRANSITION
+10% Upside    
Considering the potential impact of regulatory measu- Global Power 
Policy &  Risk: impact on margin due to  Short/medium  res to incentivize energy transition, the Group asses- Generation
Transition Italy and Iberia EBITDA/Year
Regulation  measures affecting CO price. terms ses the exposure to changes of +/-10% in the price of 
2
CO using sensitivity analysis.
2 -10% Downside
Opportunity: incease in 
margins due to impact of 
Considering two alternative transition scenarios, the 
transition on electrification of  Retail
Group assesses the impact of trends in efficiency, the  Italy and Iberia EBITDA 2030 vs 
Transition Market energy consumption.  Medium term Upside
adoption of electric devices and the penetration of EVs  2022
Risk: increase in competition 
to estimate its potential effect on electricity demand.
and possible decrease in 
market share.
Opportunity: increase 
in margins and greater 
Considering  two  alternative  transition  scenarios, 
scope for investment due  Enel X
Products &  the Group has assessed the impact of trends in 
Transition to impact of transition in  Medium term Italy and Iberia Gross Margin Upside
Services  the electrification of transportation and residential 
terms of penetration of new 
consumption to assess the potential effects.
technologies and electric 
transportation.
1 Time horizon: short (2020-2022); medium (up to 2030); long (2030-2050).
64 Sustainability Report 2019