s
ar
pill
ur 
O
fy end-user energy consumption.  our market share in renewables or accelerating the phase-
Considering these transition scenarios and models of the  out of obsolete technologies). 
energy system, Enel determined their impact on the vari- By 2030, the dynamics of the energy transition may pro-
ables that most greatly affect our business, such as elec- duce significant opportunities in the retail electricity mar-
tricity demand, the system energy mix and the increase in  ket. The progressive electrification of final consumption, 
electricity consumption due to the electrification of final  especially in transportation and the residential sector, will 
consumption. lead to a significant increase in electricity consumption. eses
nn
oo
The transition effects over the medium term can produce  Considering the transition scenarios developed by the  bb
kk
cc
new opportunities, thanks to the growth of renewables,  Group for Italy and Spain, the increase in electricity con- baba
G G 
and potential risks linked to the loss of profitability for  sumption in the domestic segment could produce an in- ESES
thermal plants. Based on assumptions about future reg- crease of more than 300 million euros in EBITDA by 2030 
ulatory developments and market trends, it is possible to  compared with 2022. Considering a more optimistic tran-
forecast developments in output in the Group’s electric- sition scenario, i.e. one with a higher electrification rate 
ity markets (for now, Italy and Spain only) and unit mar- for transportation and heating/cooling, the effects could 
gins. These considerations offer a basis for determining  be even greater, leaving unchanged the assumptions for 
the Group’s possible strategic positioning in terms of re- margins and market share set out in the Plan.
source allocation (for example, maintaining or increasing 
e
ot
n
al 
c
gi
o
ol
d
o
h
et
M
QUANTIFICATION - RANGE
RISK &  GLOBAL 
SPHCEENNOARMIOEN A OCAPPTOEGROTURNYITY  DESCRIPTION THIOMREI ZON1 IMPACT DESCRIPTION BAUFFSEINCTEESDS LINE  SCOPE Q- TUYAPNET OIFFI CIMATPIAOCNT    UDOPSWIDNES/I D   E < 1E0U0R MOISL  100E-U30R0O MSIL  > 3E0U0R MOISL  AIMCCPEALCETR WATITEHD  
TRANSITION
+10% Upside     x
Considering the potential impact of regulatory measu- Global Power  di
n
Transition PRoelgicuyla &ti on  Rmieskas: uimrepsa acftf eocnt imnga rCgOin d pureic eto.  Stehromrts/medium  rseess  ttoh ei necxepnotsivuirzee  teon cehragnyg tersa nosfi t+io/-n1, 0t%he i nG trhouep p raiscsee osf-  Generation Italy and Iberia EBITDA/Year Appe
2 CO2 using sensitivity analysis. -10% Downside d & 
n
o
B
n 
e
Opportunity: incease in  Gre
margins due to impact of 
Considering two alternative transition scenarios, the 
transition on electrification of  Retail
Group assesses the impact of trends in efficiency, the  Italy and Iberia EBITDA 2030 vs 
Transition Market energy consumption.  Medium term Upside
adoption of electric devices and the penetration of EVs  2022
Risk: increase in competition 
to estimate its potential effect on electricity demand.
and possible decrease in 
market share.
Opportunity: increase 
in margins and greater 
Considering  two  alternative  transition  scenarios, 
scope for investment due  Enel X
Products &  the Group has assessed the impact of trends in 
Transition to impact of transition in  Medium term Italy and Iberia Gross Margin Upside
Services  the electrification of transportation and residential 
terms of penetration of new 
consumption to assess the potential effects.
technologies and electric 
transportation.
Upside scenario current policies 
Downside scenario current policies
Commitment to the fight against climate change 65