s
ar
pill
ur 
O
Company and by the combustion of diesel in the auxiliary  and sold in the retail market by Enel and for the share distribut-
motors used in renewable (hydroelectric) and nuclear tech- ed on behalf of other market competitors. These losses, as for 
nologies, as well as the distribution of electricity. The com- Scope 2 for Enel’s distribution and transmission network, were 
bustion processes from fossil fuels also include the genera- calculated based on the market share exceeding generation. In 
tion of NO (GWP=265) and CH (GWP=28) expressed as a  2019, the total value of Scope 2 for distribution and transmission 
2 4
CO equivalent. These values were recalculated also for the  grid losses equalled approximately 3.8 mil t  (according to the 
2 eq
two previous years. location-based methodology). ss
ee
nn
oo
Other direct CO equivalent emissions originated from the  bb
leakage to the 2atmosphere of SF (GWP=23,500) which  Scope 3 emissions backback
6 G G 
occurs mainly within the scope of electricity distribution and,  Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions (not included in  ESES
secondarily in energy power plants. SF is used in high and me- Scope 2) that occur in Enel’s entire value chain, from gener-
6
dium voltage electrical equipment due to its capacity to isolate  ation and transport to the sale of energy. They do not derive 
and extinguish electric arcs and as of today it is irreplaceable for  from controlled or owned sources.
these applications. The quantities released to the atmosphere  With reference to the power generation business, an esti-
in 2019 as related to the entire perimeter of the Group amount  mation was made of the fugitive emissions of methane from 
to 8,367 kg, which equals 197 thousand t of CO equivalent. In  coal mining during extraction as well as emissions from the 
2
percentage terms, SF contributes towards 0.28% of Scope 1  transport of the utilised fuels (coal and diesel) for the opera-
6 e
emissions, which represents an extremely limited amount. As  tion of its plants.  ot
n
regards Scope 1, Enel considers the emissions of leakage to  In 2019, Enel expanded the categories used to account for  cal 
gi
o
the atmosphere of gases and mixtures containing greenhouse  Scope 3 emissions and has recalculated the 2018 and 2017  ol
d
o
gas that were calculated by applying the average global warm- values for its entire operational perimeter during those two  eth
M
ing potential value of the family gases.  years. As a result, a calculation is provided for the emissions 
related to the gas and electricity retail market in Europe and 
the electricity retail market in Latin America generated as a 
Scope 2 emissions
consequence of the use of sold products (electricity and gas) 
Scope 2 emissions concern the indirect emissions deriv- by end customers. The Group has assessed that for the gas in 
ing from the generation of the electricity purchased and  the European market, this value is approximately 23.9 mil t , 
eq
consumed by the Company. Scope 2 includes the CO  and that the value of emissions produced by the consumption 
2 dix
emissions associated with electricity consumption taken  of electricity by its customers is approximately 29.0 mil t .   en
eq p
p
from the electricity network for civil uses or for the gener- A
& 
ation of energy in thermoelectric and hydroelectric plants.  d 
n
CO  reduction targets o
B
Since 2016, all supplies of electricity for the offices and Ital- 2 en 
ian power plants come from renewable sources. This supply  Gre
includes the issue of green certificates by the competent  The Group’s ambition for leadership in the fight against cli-
authority. The calculation of Scope 2 for the consumption of  mate change was further strengthened in 2019: the target for 
energy taken from the network is reported according to two  the reduction of direct emissions from electricity production 
points of view, one is location based, equal to 1.55 mil t ,  by 2020, which was set in 2015 at 350 g/kWh  of CO, with a 
eq eq 2
and the other is market based, equal to 2.30 mil t . 25% reduction compared with 2007, was achieved one year 
eq
In compliance with the GHG protocol, this category includes the  early. In fact, 2019 closed with a reduction of 37%, to 296 g/
indirect emissions deriving from technical losses from Enel’s  kWh  of CO. This target has been certified by the Science 
eq 2
distribution network and the transmission network of the elec- Based Target Initiative (SBTi) as consistent with the 2DS sce-
tricity system in which the Group operates, calculated for all  nario (2-Degree Scenario) of the International Energy Agency 
countries of operation for 2017-2019. The emissions caused  (IEA), which defines an energy system development path and 
by the losses were calculated based on the part of energy that  an emissions trajectory consistent with at least 50% chance 
exceeds the quota produced in the considered country, to avoid  of limiting the average global temperature rise to 2 °C in 2100. 
the double accounting of emissions already included in Scope  As a result, the reduction target for 2020 has been upgraded 
1. An additional division was made for the fraction distributed  in the new 2020-2022 Strategic Plan to 254 g/kWh  of CO.
eq 2
Commitment to the fight against climate change 67