erate in various capacities on the grid infrastructure, Enel 
carries out continuous grid development and efficiency 
measures. Maintenance and modernisation work on the 
grid is carried out to reduce the number and duration of 
service interruptions. This also allows real-time monitor-
ing, guaranteeing timely intervention to repair faults and 
ensure an optimum energy supply. In this context, remote 
control systems play a key role, allowing local operating 
centres to carry out all the operations necessary to ensure 
continuity of the electricity service provided. Even from 
the point of view of network losses, digitalization of the 
infrastructure and the use of a remote management sys-
tem, combined with the use of electronic smart meters, 
allow greater effectiveness to be achieved in monitoring 
energy balances, while reducing fraud and enabling new 
services that market operators can offer to customers. 
After several years of experience with smart grids, Enel 
has launched a new enabling technology known as Net-
work Digital Twin®, a 3D digital model that faithfully 
replicates the electricity infrastructure, from its individual 
physical elements to the most complex operational dy-
namics. It is a large-scale application of Industry 4.0 tech-
nology, which integrates network automation, the Internet  bility, safety, waste reduction and the urban environment. 
of Things and 3D modelling with advanced data manage- Smart meters are the cornerstone of distribution net-
ment (machine learning, artificial intelligence, etc.). In  work innovation and digitalization work, the driving force 
addition to improving network management, it allows an  behind urban redevelopment and fundamental enablers 
open ‘ecosystem’ to be created to encourage information  of advanced home automation. From the beginning, their 
sharing for the benefit of people and cities, improving the  installation has been accompanied by specific information 
quality of the service, the relationship and the involve- and awareness campaigns, given that energy savings of 
ment of all stakeholders. Thanks to the advanced plat- 10% can be achieved by using this technology, particular-
forms, therefore, more information can be made available  ly thanks to the real-time availability of energy use infor-
and the data from the electricity grid can be accessed in  mation. By the end of 2019, 44.7 million end users had an 
a more timely and detailed manner, promoting awareness  active smart meter and 13.1 million end users had second 
of the use of energy, efficiency and savings. As part of the  generation meters (CE2G). In addition to transmitting de-
“Urban Futurability” project, in October 2019, the dis- tailed measurement data (daily four-hour load curves) to 
trict of Vila Olímpia in São Paulo, Brazil, saw the launch  the concentrator, the latter provide a customer-dedicated 
of Latin America’s first Network Digital Twin, which  communication channel called “Chain 2”, which allows 
improves urban resilience and creates opportunities for  data to be sent between the CE2G and in-home devic-
an extraordinary range of new services and benefits for  es. Greater transparency of information relating to ener-
the cities of the future on an infinitely larger scale that is  gy use, energy exchanges with the grid and production 
more compatible with the gigantic dimensions that demo- in the case of “prosumer” users is possible and the de-
graphic projections envisage for megacities by 2050. This  velopment of the home automation and active demand 
project shows that the digitalization of electricity grids,  market is encouraged. Customers therefore become pro-
buildings and urban infrastructure can take place in a real  tagonists and have the opportunity to participate in the 
living laboratory. Citizens, business owners, municipal- energy market and be remunerated for offering flexibility 
ities and universities can co-create innovative solutions  to the electricity system, reducing or increasing energy 
that integrate infrastructure with local needs, such as mo- use or production/input. In particular, “Chain 2” provides 
80 Sustainability Report 2019