s
ar
pill
ur 
O
access to dedicated demand response and energy effi- and laboratory tests, to guarantee the same reliability as 
ciency services (including a warning that available power  traditional meters. In Brazil, the “Circular Smart Meter” 
is being exceeded and the limiter is being activated, thus  is a virtuous example of how to promote a closed-loop 
providing a service that extends beyond simply displaying  within the value chain by reusing waste material within 
the energy and power used and produced), the promotion  the same industrial cycles to produce the new generation 
of awareness and home automation and the customi- meter. The short-term goal is to apply the methodology 
sation of tariffs, allowing the introduction of innovative  developed to other network assets as well, measuring the  ss
ee
nn
forms of contract.  expected benefits in economic, environmental and social  bobo
kk
cc
Enel has also embarked on a challenging path aimed at re- terms and then scaling the methodology to other busi- baba
G G 
designing the value chain by adopting a circular econ- ness operating processes. SS
EE
omy model, to reduce environmental impacts by maxim- Rethinking one’s business by applying an ecosystem and 
ising the recovery of end-of-life products and materials.  circular logic also means identifying new opportunities to 
The first example is the “Circular Smart Meter” project  put customers at the centre, offering customised prod-
launched in Italy and Brazil, which aims to reduce the envi- ucts and services, to build and strengthen a relationship 
ronmental footprint of smart meters through, for example,  based on trust, transparency and rational use of energy, 
the end-of-life use of their materials, starting with plastic  particularly  in  innovative  ways.  Customer  involvement 
and copper. A proactive “circularity by design” approach  also requires constant listening: Enel wants to know 
e
which integrates circularity right from the design stage,  what its stakeholders think of services it offers and their  ot
n
as minimising the use of new natural resources also cuts  customer experience. For this reason, it carries out sur- cal 
gi
o
costs throughout the life cycle (from design, manufacture  veys to measure the degree of satisfaction and uses spe- ol
d
o
and operation to scrapping), creating new efficiencies. In  cific communication channels in the various countries in  h
et
M
designing and building the “Circular Smart Meter”, en- which it operates, in accordance with legal and regulatory 
vironmental and economic impacts had to be measured  requirements. In Italy, for example, there is a telephone 
in order to identify the most relevant components and  infrastructure and innovative services that allow response 
redesign them in a circular perspective, recovering and  capability to be increased, thus providing information to 
regenerating waste such as plastic, copper, steel, etc. en- customers more quickly and accurately. For example, the 
hancing them for a second life as new network assets,  e-Notify service is available for E-Distribuzione, which al-
and finally exploring innovative tracking techniques for  lows dedicated communications and alerts to be sent to 
x
di
reverse logistics. A long and complex process from the  customers, as well as the Eddie chatbot, a virtual assistant  en
p
p
engineering point of view, including comparative analyses  designed to inform and communicate with customers.   A
& 
d 
n
o
B
n 
e
e
Gr
Italy: Puglia Active Network (PAN)  
PAN is intended to improve performance and enable innovative management of the electricity network, integrating 
the energy produced by local renewable distributed generation plants and guaranteeing customers constant access to 
information on consumption trends. A 170 million euros project in response to the NER 300 European call for proposals 
involving almost an entire region: 29,300 km of medium-voltage networks (91% of the total in Puglia), 102 primary 
substations, around 8,000 secondary nodes, 45,000 distributed generation assets. In particular, the project provides for:
>  boosting the medium-voltage electricity network for greater efﬁciency and safety;
>  the regional development of an electric vehicle charging infrastructure integrated into the distribution network, to 
promote a new model of eco-sustainable mobility with zero emissions;
>  monitoring of energy consumption with the Smart Info+ kit for low-voltage zero-emission supplies.
Infrastructure, ecosystems and platforms 81