Quality of service  
and promotion  
of responsible consumption
The leadership of a company like Enel involves customer  the continuous improvement of services. Enel also under-
care and attention to providing a quality service, not only  takes to enhance the contribution that each individual cus-
in the supply of electricity and/or natural gas, but also and  tomer can make to decreasing their impact on the planet, 
above all in the intangible aspects of the service related to  adopting consumption styles geared towards the use of 
customer perception and satisfaction. The multiple areas of  renewable energy, recycling and reuse, sharing and reduc-
activity include: the development of new contact methods  ing waste, starting with paper contracts and bills. A push to 
and channels; the improvement of back-office processes;  simplify all stages of the “customer journey” by disseminat-
monitoring of complaints and enquiries in order to reduce  ing innovative services that support the customer, from the 
processing times and ensure proper management; analysis  signing of new exclusively paperless contracts and simple 
of customer reports, in order to understand customer per- interactions to check energy use and receive digital bills, to 
ception and any critical issues in progress, so that the appro- electronic payments, including instalment plans, through vir-
priate corrective actions can be implemented immediately  tual assistants, apps and chatbots. Enel’s commitment to 
without compromising overall customer satisfaction. the right energy transition for everyone puts it at the fore-
In 2019, Enel promoted the adoption of new solutions and  front in offering innovative and inclusive services for elderly 
innovative technologies aimed at improving the customer  customers, weak, destitute, marginalised, vulnerable fami-
experience and also involving startups and stakeholders, as  lies or disabled people (Pedius, Braille bill, compatible sites 
well as sharing best practices in order to spread them to the  for the visually impaired).
various countries of operation with specific market-related  For further information about customer management in the 
customisations, thus minimising time-to-market. Relations  various countries, in addition to the following paragraphs, 
with consumer associations have been intensified, exploring  please refer to the individual Sustainability Reports of Enel 
collaboration opportunities aimed at improving the relation- Group’s subsidiaries.
ship with customers and working together to create services 
that increasingly respond to new needs and requirements, 
without neglecting the weaker sections of the population. 
In April 2019, the Company launched the “Mass customi-
zation & inclusion” challenge, aimed at gathering innovative 
ideas and proposals for customised products and services 
considering diversity and inclusion issues. The winning pro-
posal was the “e-domorent” project for the sustainable use 
of home appliances. In addition, four creative sessions were 
organised involving over 100 people from the retail area, in 
Bogotá and Bucharest, aimed at finding new and innovative 
ideas to launch cutting-edge solutions, products and servic-
es on the market. 
Finally, the main lines of action for the next three years, con-
cerning customer centrality, circular economy, digitalization 
and sustainability, were identified and shared. Putting the 
customer at the centre means developing new relationship 
models that promote listening and involvement to ensure 
82 Sustainability Report 2019