s
ar
pill
ur 
O
Customer satisfaction Brasileira de Distribuidores de Energia Elétrica). The index is 
determined after conducting a sample survey among cus-
tomers on aspects such as: energy supply, information and 
102-43 102-44 103-2 103-3 417-1
communication, utility bills, customer support and image. 
The attention paid to quality of service issues is confirmed  In Peru as well, surveys are carried out, using structured 
again this year by the results of customer satisfaction sur- and standardised questionnaires, among people who have 
veys carried out in all the countries where Enel operates as  used the contact point services. Finally, in Colombia, there  ss
ee
nn
an electricity vendor or distributor. is a customer satisfaction form designed to measure market  bobo
kk
cc
In Italy, the customer satisfaction index (CSI) for 2019 was  perception of the supply of products and services in order to  baba
G G 
92.41 for the regulated market (92.4 in 2018) and 90.21 for  direct initiatives and the respective resources more efficient- ESES
the free market (90.2 in 2018). In addition, monthly satis- ly. The quality satisfaction index (ISCAL), the key elements 
faction surveys are carried out among customers who have  of which include the commercial relationship and billing, has 
received an answer to a written or verbal complaint. The  remained at excellent levels in recent years, thanks to the 
survey is conducted by telephone interview after a response  development of the customer relationship plan.
has been sent or the customer has been contacted by tele-
phone.
In Iberia, through the subsidiary Endesa, efficient customer 
e
service is the main value pursued in the relationship with  Management of complaints not
al 
customers, striving for maximum efficiency in the opera- c
gi
o
tion of its customer service channels, tools and platforms  ol
102-17 102-43 103-2 103-3 od
through a process of constant innovation and improvement.  eth
M
20 key indicators are monitored every month to ensure re- In all the countries where Enel operates, customers have var-
spect for the improvements identified during the previous  ious channels available through which to make a complaint 
year. The CSI has been improving over the years, reaching  or request information (post, website, toll-free number). Enel 
7.32 for the free market (7.2 in 2018) and remaining at 7.2 for  constantly monitors the feedback received, in order to un-
the regulated market in 2019. derstand the customer’s perception and any ongoing critical 
In Romania, customers can voice their opinions via the con- issues and to implement the appropriate corrective actions. 
tact centre, e-mail and website. The information is gathered  In Italy, for example, through the company Enel Energia, the  x
di
once a month and the results used to improve the quality  Enel Group monitors the commercial quality of all its contact  en
p
p
of service and business processes. The general satisfaction  channels, systematically monitoring the sales and manage- A
& 
index was 853 (87 in 2018) for the free market and 894 for the  ment processes. The goal is to ensure the fulfilment of the  nd 
o
B
regulated market (86 in 2018). requirements in compliance with current legislation, priva- n 
e
e
In Latin America, customer satisfaction indicators are a  cy and rules protecting the freedom and dignity of workers.  Gr
fundamental consideration when defining strategies and  Customer reports are managed through dedicated channels 
designing new products. In Brazil, customer satisfaction is  and analysed by a specific working group so that the most 
measured using a specific index calculated by the Brazilian  suitable actions are taken, both at the complaint manage-
association of electricity distributors (ABRADEE - Associação  ment stage and, above all, in preventing the underlying 
causes. This year there was a reduction in the time required 
to manage the complaint, which fell below the minimum 
1 The value is calculated on a scale of 1 to 100. For 2019, the values have  times required by ARERA (Regulatory Authority for Energy, 
been estimated on the basis of established trends. Following a change of 
Networks and the Environment) which simultaneously in-
methodology, from 2018, the CSI value is determined annually rather than 
half-yearly as it was in 2017 and 2016. creased the satisfaction of complaining customers.
2 The value is calculated on a scale of 1 to 10. In Iberia, complaints are managed both centrally by the “At-
3 The value is calculated on a scale of 1 to 100. The fall recorded on the free  ención de Reclamaciones” (complaint management) unit 
market in 2019 relates to the replacement of the customer management 
and locally through six local units, in order to prevent any 
IT platform with a more advanced one (SAP platform). The learning curve 
of the telephone operators was reflected in the quality of service provided. disruptions and determine the appropriate tools needed to 
4  The value is calculated on a scale of 1 to 100.
Infrastructure, ecosystems and platforms 83