s
ar
pill
ur 
O
terest-free instalments and has specific support channels. A transparent relationship 
Finally, working with the Endesa Foundation and in collab-
with customers
oration with the Red Cross and Ecodes, Endesa has been 
promoting an energy volunteering project since 2015 to 
support specific vulnerable situations by providing training 
102-16 103-2 103-3 417-1 DMA EU (former EU24)
on efficient consumption, personalised advice and taking 
money-saving and safety measures in homes. In 2018- In the various companies of the Enel Group, in accordance  ss
ee
nn
2019, the project benefited 2,410 households, 772 of them  with the Code of Ethics, all contracts, communications ad- bobo
kk
cc
in 2019. The project has been re-launched for 2020. During  dressed to customers and advertising messages must be:  baba
G G 
2019, Endesa signed an agreement with the city of Mala- >  clear and simple, written in language that is as close as  SS
EE
ga to protect vulnerable families at risk of social exclusion,  possible to that normally used by the people to whom 
making it easier for them to receive financial help from so- they are addressed; 
cial services by trialling an innovative digital platform (Con- >  compliant with current regulations, without resorting to 
fía project). elusive or incorrect practices; 
In Romania, tailor-made solutions are constantly being  >  complete, without neglecting any information needed 
sought to meet the needs of the most vulnerable custom- by the customer to make a decision; 
er groups. Enel has a presence in the Ferentari district of  >  accessible to the customer.
e
Bucharest, one of the most disadvantaged. By appointing  In all the countries where the Group operates, specific cus- ot
n
a trusted person from that community, called an “energy  tomer service channels have been set up: physical, tele- cal 
gi
mediator”, Enel has been able to gain a better understand- phone and online, to keep customers constantly informed  olo
d
o
ing of local needs to ensure a more appropriate offer of  about the features of the products and services offered. Ac- h
et
M
services. The energy mediator also helps the population  cess to information has also been strengthened through the 
of the neighbourhood to perform seemingly simple tasks  use of social media channels, such as Facebook and Twitter, 
such as reading meters, signing contracts or accompanying  and specific apps. In order to guarantee that communica-
local people to the Enel shop when necessary. tion with customers is truly transparent, correct and effec-
In  Brazil,  customers  who  rely  on  life-preserving  elec- tive, Enel undertakes to ensure that any cultural, linguistic, 
tro-medical equipment have priority over other customers  illiteracy or disability barriers do not affect equal access to 
on the telephone channel and their requests are monitored  information for customers. Services dedicated to deaf peo-
x
di
and promptly supported. ple have been developed in Spain and Peru, thanks to the  n
e
p
In addition, Enel appropriately manages customers with  collaboration with the Italian startup Pedius, which has been  Ap
& 
special  subsidies  offered  by  the  government,  such  as  operating in Italy since 2018. d 
n
o
the “Social Electricity Tariff” (TSEE) subsidy provided for  In Italy, in addition to the www.enel.it website, which allows  n B
e
low-income people. customer relationships to be set up and maintained for com- Gre
In 2019, Enel promoted several initiatives that focused on  mercial and management purposes, there is a specific Enel 
energy efficiency aimed especially at low-income custom- Energia app designed to manage users quickly and easily, 
ers: the replacement of fridges and lights, seminars on re- providing access to all the data relating to bills, usage, pay-
sponsible energy use and household budgeting, inclusion  ment status, etc. It also allows the services associated with 
in the TSEE lists.  the various supplies to be activated or changed, information 
In Chile, Enel Distribución Chile’s “oficina móvil” (mobile  to be received about new offers and promotions, while also 
office) continued to contribute to caring for the most vul- providing access to the dedicated loyalty program.
nerable customers, bringing the company closer to their  As part of the “Enel Social Services” programme, created in 
homes.  collaboration with the Prime Minister’s Office, the National 
In Peru, the “More light, more life” project aims to bring  Electricity Service sends the bill in Braille to blind custom-
electricity to developing areas of housing. In 2019, Enel  ers. There is also a chat function for deaf customers on the 
carried out work in 94 areas through this programme, in- Enel Energia website (www.enel.it). Also on the Enel Ener-
volving more than 190 thousand households and contribut- gia website there is a guide with visual and audio contents 
ing to their well-being, safety and quality of life. explaining the bill. 
Infrastructure, ecosystems and platforms 85