In Iberia, the www.endesa.com website provides various 
functions and payment methods, a section dedicated to pri-
vacy management, a chat function available on the app and 
innovative ways of viewing usage and invoices. All com-
mercial communications, invoices and information sent by 
Endesa to its customers can be received in two languages: 
Spanish and Catalan. The www.endesa.com website is also 
available in Spanish, Catalan and English. In addition, Endesa 
is committed to overcoming any physical, social and language 
barriers, particularly through digitalization. Customer contact 
points are all located on the ground floor to provide access for 
people with disabilities. Finally, Endesa has a special unit to 
manage relations with consumer associations and public bod- a corporate asset at the same time. The Group has therefore 
ies, which holds regular meetings and participates in various  appointed a Data Protection Officer to guarantee full respect 
industry forums with a view to adopting increasingly appropri- for the privacy of all the individuals with whom it interacts. For 
ate measures for the continuous improvement of customer  further details, see the “Sound governance” chapter.
relations.
In Romania, the www.enel.ro website has introduced an 
English version for non-Romanian customers. In 2019, a part- Energy-saving 
nership was established with Pago, a bill payment app, with 
commercial offers,
an Enel customer loyalty offer.
In Chile, new digital platforms have been developed to pro- products and services
vide the same information and the same level of customer 
service, regardless of whether customers choose to be as-
103-2 103-3 DMA EU (former EU24)
sisted in person, remotely or digitally.
In Brazil, there is a wide range of customer communication  In all the countries where Enel operates, a wide range of 
channels, with 80% of contacts made through digital chan- high energy performance products has been launched to 
nels. Using the website at www.enel.com.br, text messaging  guarantee savings in terms of both consumption and emis-
and the app, customers can access information and services  sions.
while maintaining a transparent relationship with Enel. They  In 2019, Endesa X established itself as one of the main play-
can also communicate with Enel through the main social me- ers in the solar self-consumption market in Spain. Thanks to 
dia (Facebook, Twitter or Instagram), using specific applica- the experience gained and its technical knowledge, it sup-
tions for each social network, and an assistant can also be  ports customers in enhancing the technology needed to ac-
contacted via chat (WhatsApp, Messenger, DM-Direct Mes- celerate the efficient consumption of energy, contributing to 
sage or e-mail). Virtual assistant Elena, a WhatsApp chatbot,  achieve clean and renewable energy, savings of up to 50% 
is also available to interact with customers and show them  on annual electricity bills and a reduction in CO emissions 
2
the easiest way to fulfil their requirements. into the atmosphere. The photovoltaic projects contracted 
Enel complies with current customer privacy regulations in  with Endesa X in 2019 will lead to a reduction in emissions 
all the countries where it operates. The Company also under- from customers of up to 13,500 t/year.
takes to monitor all third-party companies that may be in a  Furthermore, together with Amazon, the e-Home Business 
position to use customers’ personal data. To this end, dedi- Line has developed Homix, a smart home device, currently 
cated clauses are included in contracts with partners who use  available in Italy and Spain in the Amazon, Enel X and Endesa 
personal data to carry out specific activities, for example sales  Energía stores. Homix learns usage habits and independent-
services or customer satisfaction surveys. Customer data  ly suggests ways to fulfil personal requirements and simplify 
are an expression of the individual’s personality and identity,  the life of families through the integrated management of 
therefore they must be treated with due caution and guaran- heating, safety and lighting, in order to optimise times and 
tees. Enel considers personal data to be a shared asset and  consumption. The touch screen integrated with Alexa, Ama-
86 Sustainability Report 2019