s
ar
pill
ur 
O
zon’s cloud-hosted smart voice service, is designed to offer  mon parts of the building. In 2019, the new “Ore FREE” of-
maximum ease of use. Using the voice commands, you can  fer was also launched, which further contributed to ensuring 
ask Alexa to increase or decrease the temperature of the  the centrality of the customer in the offer of Enel Energia 
apartment, set reminders for daily activities, ask for informa- services. With Ore FREE, customers use only energy from 
tion about electricity and gas bills, provide updates on traffic  renewable sources for their household consumption and can 
conditions, weather or access to Amazon Music. choose the time slot in which to take advantage of three 
Finally, as part of the development of electric mobility solu- hours of free energy. This important change is the first step  ss
ee
nn
oo
tions suitable for all types of customers, Endesa has con- towards achieving more responsible consumption and great- bb
kk
cc
tinued to establish agreements with large companies to  er attention to increasingly sustainable behaviour thanks to  baba
G G 
promote the use of electric mobility for their vehicles. For  the new open meter services. ESES
example, Endesa X and Pascual have reached an agree- In Brazil, numerous energy efficiency projects have been 
ment for the installation of 76 charging points between the  launched to improve people’s awareness of energy con-
company’s 27 sales offices, the 6 factories and the central  sumption, promoting the replacement of obsolete electrical 
offices located in Madrid; as well as for use of the public  equipment (fridges, freezers, lighting), with a significant im-
charging infrastructure, managed by this company across  pact on energy consumption and on improving energy effi-
the country. This project aims to achieve a 20% reduction in  ciency in homes. In 2019, around 267,000 customers ben-
CO by the end of 2020.  efited from educational projects on responsible energy use. 
2 e
In Italy, the “Piano Italia” project to promote the electrifica- Mobile units equipped with an explanatory model showing  ot
n
al 
tion of mobility and sustainable transport is intended to plan  how energy is generated, transmitted and distributed trav- c
gi
o
and install a network of 28,000 charging points for electric  elled to various areas of the country to explain its operation  ol
d
o
vehicles by 2023. and simulate different types of energy use with fun activi- eth
M
Also Italian is the “Energy efficiency for condominiums”  ties for all ages. The results of the programme in 2019 were 
project of Enel X, aimed at all centrally heated condomini- 46,813 MWh/year of energy saved and 8,812 kW of demand 
ums of more than eight units that are interested in carrying  avoided. The energy saved is sufficient to supply 26,000 
out energy redevelopment and efficiency work on the com- homes for a year. 
x
di
n
e
p
p
Enel X A
& 
d 
n
o
B
n 
e
e
Gr
DMA EU (former EU7) 
Set up in 2017 with the aim of guiding the transformation  and innovative services;
of the energy sector by providing value-added services for  >  simplifies the management of home services, creating a 
customers, Enel X operates according to an open strategy  sustainable ecosystem accessible to all.
based on digitalization, sustainability and innovation and acts  A model that allows urban ecosystems to be connected with 
as a circularity accelerator, both with its suppliers and cus- industrial districts and production chains, mobility needs and 
tomers and on the market. In particular, Enel X: individuals. Many different connections are made: distribu-
>  involves customers, commercial and industrial, in the  tion systems and energy storage batteries, smart lighting 
energy transition, allowing them to save costs and mon- solutions and low-energy LEDs, electric mobility and fast 
etise their flexibility by offering sustainable and innova- charging services, tools for the smart management of ener-
tive solutions; gy and equipment in houses, buildings and cities, software 
>  supports the electrification of cities and energy efficien- to control energy exchanges in distributed self-production 
cy, creating an ecosystem of digitalized infrastructure  systems (demand management & response).
Infrastructure, ecosystems and platforms 87