102-7 103-2 103-3 401-1 404-1 405-1 405-2
Sustainability Report Our people  
At a Glance
Performance indicators
Annual Report  and their value
21% Thanks to the energy, know-how and common vision of Enel’s people, we are ca-
  pable of managing the constantly evolving complexities, while maintaining our commit-
women in the workforce ments to the market. Progress springs from ideas and co-creation, and is nourished by 
values such as trust, responsibility, proactivity and innovation.
The main trends make it necessary to define a new world of work that responds more 
dynamically to the challenges of the future, making a different leadership model neces-
3,726
sary. Technological advances offer ever greater choice and flexibility, both in the way 
 
in which tasks are carried out and in the organisation and management of people. The 
new hires
necessary skills change and upskilling and reskilling strategies assume ever greater im-
portance to allow companies to develop talent and contribute to socially responsible 
approaches to accompany the transition without leaving anyone behind. On average, 
38.8  companies are populated by five different generations of people, and women constitute 
a professional potential that is yet to be appreciated. 
In this context, Enel is working towards:
average training hours 
per employee >  creating a new role of leader capable of managing the change presented by 
the external environment and simultaneously capable of guiding people to-
wards the achievement of objectives, acting as a facilitator. Courage, curiosity, 
resilience, and enormous generosity are characteristics that identify the leader 
83.7%
of the future that focuses on the potential of people in their entirety, in terms 
  of both skills and aptitudes; 
ERR manager 
>  guaranteeing an open, dynamic working environment that promotes the entre-
(Equal Remuneration Ratio)
preneurial approach, the assumption of risks, innovation and management of dis-
continuities, and that embeds diversity and inclusion;
>  promoting constant updating of skills, capabilities and experience. Training is ever 
more a partner of growth for all, stimulating individual initiative, self-learning and a 
pro-active aptitude, while also sharing a wealth of resources in terms of knowledge 
and passion. This makes it possible to remain abreast of the times and capture the 
weak signals of today that may well become the market trends tomorrow. 
Agile, job change, mentoring, shadowing, coaching, failure culture and open 
feedback are all tools that make it possible to enable this new cultural ecosystem 
and thus to create value in the long term. In particular, the agile approach, launched 
in 2017, constitutes a different way of working, oriented towards improvement and 
continuous learning through sharing of responsibility towards a common goal. In 2019 
approximately 500 initiatives were staged in 11 countries, with the involvement of al-
most 3 thousand people, 44% of whom took part in specific training sessions on mind-
set, the main agile frameworks and the associated profiles, necessary to promote and 
94 Sustainability Report 2019