s
ar
pill
ur 
O
accelerate agile transformation in Enel. In addition, onboarding  all Group managers worldwide and thereafter white collar staff 
initiatives have been carried out together with communication  of the main metropolitan sites in a peer2peer experience to 
campaigns designed to disseminate the agile culture and to  gain familiarity with new organisational contexts, experiment 
engage people. Job change has been promoted to allow peo- with new activities and extend their network. Also promoted 
ple to open up to new possibilities and challenges, facilitating  was the voluntary participation “I-coach” initiative designed to 
cross-fertilisation at all levels and diversification of competenc- disseminate the coaching and feedback culture that supports 
es, and to bring aptitudes to bear in different contexts, creat- the Open Power transformation, stimulating the capacity of a  ss
ee
nn
ing increasingly horizontal and complete professional profiles.  personal vision, of coaching towards new objectives and chal- bobo
kk
cc
30,000 hours were dedicated to mentoring and shadowing  lenges, of improvement and self-development. The course  baba
G G 
activities in 2019, in order to exchange experiences, acquire  is delivered by certified Enel coaches who share their skills,  SS
EE
different outlooks, expand competences, and strengthen the  applying all their passion for serving others. Each course day 
network of relationships, with more than 4 thousand individ- consists of an alternation of practical and theoretical sessions. 
uals engaged in coaching activities since 2017. In the past  Finally, in the 2018-2019 period around 545 thousand feedback 
year the shadowing project was further extended to involve  messages were exchanged.
#IOLAVORODACASA
Enel has taken action to deal with the emergency linked to the spread of Coronavirus (Covid-19), also to support the  ote
n
countries in which it works. Smart working was immediately implemented for around 50% of staff, protecting their  al 
c
gi
health and guaranteeing business continuity, and a specific task force has been set up with the aim of monitoring the  o
ol
d
phenomena, defining suitable actions and sharing experience across the various countries.  o
h
et
A dedicated section has been created on the company intranet with useful information, advice and materials. Specif- M
ically, the new section contains recommendations for prevention and behaviours to adopt together with information 
concerning work in the field (preventive and protective measures, how to don disposable gloves, how to use face 
masks, and travel permit forms) and digital working, also with a focus on the prevention of cyber fraud.
Also, the eDucation global platform contains the following sections, which are updated on a daily basis with new 
learning contents:
>  “Lavorare insieme”, coaching pills, advice and suggestions to use IT tools and equipment to their best advantage;
x
>  “Informarsi”, support for smart working activities; ndi
e
p
>  “Rigenerarsi”, tutorials on the subject of personal and family well-being. p
A
& 
In addition, Enel has asked its people for ideas on how the Company could contribute to facing and overcoming the  d 
n
o
emergency in Italy in the optimal manner. There is no restriction on the areas of application and type of resources to  B
n 
e
use, internal or external, although solutions must be practical, realistic and rapidly implementable. e
Gr
Enel people in the world
As of December 31, 2019 the Enel Group employed 68,253  Network Srl, FlagPay Srl and PayTipper in Italy. 
people (down by 1,019 with respect to the end of 2018).  Since 2015, Enel has adopted a model of values and con-
The reduction in the Group workforce is the effect of the net  ducts, the “Open Power” model, which takes form in var-
balance between new recruits and terminations in the year  ious operational aspects, in order to increase the involve-
(-1,094 people) and the change in scope (accounting overall  ment and participation of the people working at Enel, and 
for +75 people), including decommissioning of the Mercure  which serves as the point of reference for all people man-
plant, which is part of Enel Produzione in Italy, acquisition in  agement and development processes. Specifically, there are 
March of the Tradewind company in the US, sale of the Reft- 4 values (responsibility, trust, innovation and proactivity) and 
inskaya GRES plant in Russia and acquisition of PayTipper  10 behaviours:
Our people and their value 95