1  Adopt and promote safe behaviours and take the initia- on meritocracy). Enel’s organizational model has a matrix of 
tive in order to improve conditions regarding health, safe- Business Lines/Countries and Regions, flanked by the Global 
ty and well-being.  Service Functions and Holding Functions that provide sup-
2  Take decisions in their daily activities and accept the re- port for the business.
sponsibility that goes with them.  The main data and targets linked to the People and Organ-
3  Deliver results and aim for excellence.  ization Function are submitted to the Control and Risks 
4  Seek new solutions and do not give up when faced with  Committee, to the Corporate Governance and Sustainability 
obstacles or failures.  Committee and to the Board of Directors, in the framework 
5  Change their priorities rapidly when required to do so by  of meetings dedicated to the Sustainability Plan, to the Sus-
changes in the scenario. tainability Report, and to the progress of Enel’s positioning in 
6  Share relevant information and are cooperative, as well  the main ESG ratings and sustainability indices. 
as willing to listen to other people’s opinions and ideas. 
7  Acknowledge colleagues’ merit and provide feedback  Africa, Asia and Oceania 0.8%
when asked or independently which improves their work. 
8  Ensure customers’ and/or colleagues’ satisfaction by act-
ing effectively and fast.  Europe and Euro-Mediterranean Affairs 8.7%
9  Strive to include everyone, acknowledge and enhance 
the value of individual differences (culture, gender, age, 
disability, personality, etc.).  Iberia 14.8%
10  Fulfill commitments and perform their work passionately 
and with determination.
Italy 43.6%
The “People and Organization” Function defines organi-
zational models in line with the Group’s strategy and the 
long-term plan for managing people that work in the Com-
Latin America 29.7%
pany. The various people management, development and 
motivation processes are governed by specific policies and 
procedures at global and local level (for example, procedures 
North America 2.4%
to recruit, employ and manage people), and dedicated sec-
tions are available on the company intranet (for example, 
96 Sustainability Report 2019