s
ar
pill
ur 
O
Talent, development and 
management of people
103-2 103-3 404-1 404-3 DMA EU (former EU14) eses
nn
oo
bb
kk
cc
In line with the current transformation scenario, which re- the dissemination of digital competences and learning, but  baba
G G 
quires new skills and professional profiles, selection and  a digital culture above all. At 2019 Enel had engaged 46%  SS
EE
recruiting, training and development processes play a  of people in training activities on digital skills, in line with 
key role in the Company. There were more than 3,700  the goal of achieving 100% of its people within 2022. In 
new recruits in 2019, mainly in Italy and Latin America;  continuity with the evolutionary path of leadership started 
relations with universities were consolidated by means of a  in 2017 (from leader to coach), Enel has designed a cultural 
series of ad hoc initiatives, and a new Recruiting Day pilot  transformation journey called “Leadership in Digital and 
project was launched based on an aptitudinal model aimed  Data-Driven Transformation” addressed to management. 
at supporting the various recruiting requirements, creating  During these meetings, dialogue was promoted between 
e
a pipeline of young people. Testing was also carried out on  the best Italian and international companies, innovators in  ot
n
new digital instruments that will support the selection pro- transformation of the business model and in digital culture  cal 
gi
o
cess in 2020: a video interview based on IA and a gamifica- development. In 2019, between April and December 19  ol
d
o
tion experience. training sessions were launched in Italy with the partici- h
et
M
In a transformation scenario characterised by a high level  pation of more than 500 managers, and 12 sessions in the 
of automation, ever more advanced technological evolution  rest of the world, with around 300 managers taking part. 
and new technical and professional profiles, Enel has devel- This initiative is accompanied by experiential training activi-
oped upskilling and reskilling programmes that promote  ties such as mentoring, coaching and job shadowing. 
the evolution of talents and skills. In particular, the upskill- In April 2019, global adoption was completed of the eDu-
ing programmes focus on the development of existing pro- cation learning platform, thanks to which management and 
fessional competences, adding new skills according to the  monitoring of all training initiatives is guaranteed by means 
x
di
needs dictated by innovative technology and processes.  of a common service model in all Group countries. eDuca- en
p
p
Conversely, reskilling is aimed at creating new professional  tion also is the interface providing access to residential and  A
& 
profiles, replacing skills that have become obsolete or are  online courses for all Enel people: to date nearly 90% of the  d 
n
o
no longer required, and allowing people to work on new  Enel population has completed at least one course on the  n B
e
activities. platform. The eDucation platform allows Enel people to ac- Gre
Continuous learning plays a core role for Enel. A total of  cess around 200 multiple online contents in several lan-
2,600,000 training hours (38.8 average hours pro capite)  guages selected from the best providers on the market and 
were delivered in 2019, with the involvement of 62,482  constantly updated and expanded, in addition to the cours-
people, equal to 91.5% of the entire workforce. Training  es produced by Enel. Apart from freely making use of the 
activities concern all aspects and targets: technical, be- courses, participants can become content promoters, sug-
havioural,  managerial,  agile  linguistic,  onboarding  expe- gesting books, courses, articles, videos, links, documents 
rience for new recruits, training in health and safety, and  and reports, also from external sources, by means of the 
in digital skills and culture. This is an authentic lab aimed  “learning playlists”, exchanging comments and attracting 
at increasing the occupational and personal competitive- followers, in an expression of the principles of networking 
ness of all people, providing them with tools and methods  and knowledge sharing. In 2019, the main online courses of 
to allow them to adopt an aware stance when facing the  global interest released concerned language skills for Ital-
radical processes of change that impact working methods  ian, English and Spanish, which attracted more than 15,000 
from a cultural and organisational perspective. In addition,  self-training participants worldwide; digital training on the 
the Company’s commitment continues to support not only  Office suite; knowledge of the e-commerce sector; training 
Our people and their value 97