SR 2017 #1 NEODECORTECH: THE ITALIAN SIDE OF DECOR CEO’s letter
Over 2017, Confalonieri S.p.A., along with Cartiere di Guarcino and  Future goals and investments focus on two strategic pillars: in-
BEG, decided to undertake the path to go public on AIM Italia (Alterna- novation through R&D activities of both new products and the im-
tive Capital Market), managed and regulated by Borsa Italiana S.p.A. provement of current production processes; human capital, through 
This path, successfully concluded on 26th September 2017, led  training and refresher courses as well as professional growth of our 
to important changes in the strategic management and modus op- staff.
erandi of the three companies, beyond the business name change  These goals and investments are consistent with the strategic 
from Confalonieri S.p.A. to Neodecortech S.p.A. evolution path that Neodecortech has realized over the past years 
For Neodecortech S.p.A., 2017 was a challenging year, which led  and that allows the Group to face the challenges of the market with 
to a consequent reorganization and redefinition of roles, functions  composure and determination.
and responsibilities in all business areas. Neodecortech achievement in listing on AIM Capitals Market is 
The present Sustainability Report is the first one issued for the en- just the first step in its growth path: from now on it will be even 
tire Neodecortech and gives us the opportunity to fully express the  more important and strategic to be able to quickly read, interpret 
Group mission, focused on “the man, the environment, the quality of  and manage the solicitations we will face and to which we must re-
life, products and services offered to our clients”. Our strategic vision  spond with just as much rapidity, determination and courage.
is based on these principles, which are fully explained through the 
adoption of certifications and business policies aimed to pursue im-
Luigi Cologni
portant and ambitious goals as well as the way Neodecortech S.p.A., 
along with Cartiere di Guarcino and BEG, relates to its stakeholders. 
These relations have always been based on mutual trust and com-
mon compliance with laws and rules, in a spirit of transparency.