SR 2017 #1 NEODECORTECH: THE ITALIAN SIDE OF DECOR 1.7 Production processes
Cartiere di Guarcino Calendering 
Making Pulp  The paper sheet is subjected to the calandering process where, af-
Decor paper components (cellulose, fillers, chemicals and recycled  ter steam-humidification, it is pressed between two rullers (one hard 
waste) are mixed proportionately into the pulper, where the pulp,  and the other soft) to reach the right smoothness level. This process 
composed of water at 93%, is shacked and smashed. ↓ ends with paper tape coiling. ↓
Refining
To ensure the cellulose three-dimensional development and branch- Bioenergia Guarcino
ing, which will give to paper sheet the right resistance and porosity  BEG is founded to satisfy CDG electricity and heating needs.
characteristics, the pulp is subjected to a refining process through  Three Wartsila 16V32 engines with a power output of 6,865 Mw/h 
appropriate beaters. ↓ and 3,9 tons/h of steam each ensure electricity production, through 
Papermaking an alternator directly linked to the engine, while the steam production 
The pulp is distributed evenly on a flat surface that tends to the fibers  is guaranteed by the heat recovery through water-tube boilers. The 
and ensures an even profile of the sheet; than a drying cloth sepa- system has been calibrated to achieve CDG total energy employment 
rates the water from the pulp using some blades and vacuum applied  while excess energy is channeled to national sites.
in just as many drying boxes. Lastly, it is required a more energetic  Engines are fed with bioliquids: since 2017, the Company has de-
mechanic action, using presses, to make the paper achieve a dry level  cided to use rendered animal fat (RAF) made in Italy, choosing in this 
at 45% average. ↓ way a low environmental-impact fuel and enhancing a short chain at 
Drying  the same time.
The paper sheet, gradually heated, releases water in form of steam 
until it reaches a dry level at 98%. The paper is then pumped into a 
curing system in which the epichlorohydrin resin branches, giving to 
the sheet the right resistance to humidity. ↓
APPLICATION ON 
PRINTING AND
CELLULOSE DECOR PAPER LAMINATES OR  END CONSUMER
IMPREGNATION
OTHER SURFACES
12