SR 2017 #1 NEODECORTECH: THE ITALIAN SIDE OF DECOR 1.7 Production processes
Neodecortech Impregnation process
Design and project of a décor The impregnation process, which concerns only MEL and FINISH 
The process of creating a new decor can be triggered with a sample of  products, consists in the treatment of special papers, plain colours 
natural wood, stone or fabric, or from the idea for a purely geometric  or woodgrains printed, with aqueous solutions containing melamine, 
fancy design. The Internal Laboratory begins the development of the  urea and acrylic resins. Each impregnation plant consists of an im-
design, scanning the material to be reproduced and continues with  pregnation station and a coating station, spaced by a drying tunnel 
technical and creative interventions on computer. Color separation or  after each stage. After both passage steps in a number of ovens this 
"variation " by color decomposition in the primary colors for each of  allows proper paper drying and, at the output of the plant, the paper 
the engraving planes, each of which will correspond to a cylinder, is a  can be rolled on cardboard cores or cut in sheets.  ↓
very important step because the accuracy with which it will be made 
will affect the quality of the decor printing. ↓
Construction and photoengraving of the cylinders
The decorative design developed by the Internal Laboratory is deliv-
ered to the external laboratory for the photo-engraving phase of the 
cylinders, the only one that takes place outside the Company. The cyl-
inders are then checked for verifying the proper engraving. ↓
Rotogravure printing process
The cylinder surface is made up of numerous engravings of depth and 
variable width that make up a design. These incisions receive the ink 
in a differentiate quantity, then the cylinder surface is pressed against 
the decorative paper on which the ink is transferred. Afterwards, the 
paper passes through drying hoods up to four times until the final 
design is realized. ↓
APPLICATION ON 
PRINTING AND 
CELLULOSE DECOR PAPER LAMINATES OR  END CONSUMER
IMPREGNATION
OTHER SURFACES
13