SR 2017 #1 NEODECORTECH: THE ITALIAN SIDE OF DECOR 1.8 Products
1.8 Products
The Group provides national and international territory with a wide  Underlay papers   
and coordinated range of products for both decor papers sector and  Underlay paper were created as a support to be placed on particle 
so-called laminated boards market. In fact, through a steady crea- board. As for Unicolor papers, they are intended for the impregnation, 
tive and stylistic research, the Group can offer approximately 900  the color chosen during the process as only decoration.
décor models that are able to imitate different natural materials,  Backer papers 
such as wood and stone, and surfaces, like concrete and metal, up  Backer papers are designed to serve as a layer for the underside of 
to fabric-inspired textures as well as pure abstract geometries. The  flooring laminate, developed to satisfy the needs of the flooring market. 
Group can offer approximately 51 products divided into the following 
5 categories: decor papers → Cartiere di Guarcino;  Neodecortech products
decor printings, finish foil, melamine film, PPF → Neodecortech. PPF 
A more detailed description of the products the Group companies  PVC  semi-rigid  thermoplastic  polymer  film,  printed  with  wa-
offer is given below. ter-based inks, used for the furniture market (vertical PVC) and for 
flooring (LVT). In addition to PVC, printing can be made on PP (poly-
Cartiere di Guarcino products propylene) and PET (polyethylene terephthalate).
Print base papers   DEC  
Smoothed papers intended to be impregnated through thermoset- Printed decorative paper for the production of low pressure mel-
ting resins and then transformed in laminated or veneered panels.  amine panels, finish foils, edge-bandings and high-pressure lam-
On these panels marble and wood surfaces are reproduced. Thanks  inates, as well as decors for flooring. These decorative papers, 
to its characteristics, this kind of paper allows the best printability in  through the rotogravure printing process, reproduce imitations of 
the rotogravure and digital system. Print base papers are smoothed  wood, marble, granite, fancy and plain colors. 
mechanically with calenders and their mechanic pressure, because  MEL
of heat and humidity. Decor side is called “dandy roll side” and it is  Melamine papers for high and low-pressure laminates that means 
intended to be printed. decor papers impregnated in melamine or melamine-urea resins, 
Unicolor papers   for the furniture industry. The range includes products suitable for 
Slightly smoothed papers, characterized by a low porosity level  presses for chipboard or MDF panels covering.
and a high degree of opacity, recognizable by the uniformity of their  FINISH 
colors. They are intended for impregnation, the color chosen during  Finished and paintable papers ranging from pre to post-impregnate 
the impregnation process as only decoration. Depending on the res- until the edge-bandings. The product is obtained from decorative, 
ins used during the impregnation process, papers can have differ- printed or plain colors papers, which are impregnated with specific 
ent features. These papers too are later transformed in laminated  resins (acrylics and ureic properly modified), then coated with fin-
or veneered panels. ishing paints. It is a suitable product for the covering of chipboard, 
MDF and plywood; backs and flat surfaces; panels for lacquered 
furniture.
14