SR 2017 #2 ENVIRONMENT 2.2 Certifications
2.2 Certifications
Neodecortech strategic approach is confirmed by the daily action  OH SAS 18001
at all levels carried out by all business roles and functions, in line  Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Specification is an oc-
with the path the Group companies have undertaken over a decade  cupational health and safety management system that ensures a 
ago and that have led to the acquisition of certifications aimed to of- level of control that goes beyond the law requirements.
fer a tangible proof of commitment, transparency and decency that  OH SAS certification enables mapping and monitoring systematiza-
characterize the activities to its counterparties. Neodecortech certi- tion of all possible risks related to normal and extraordinary activ-
fications, listed below, have all been adopted voluntarily and are rec- ities at the Company workplace. It integrates with standard 14001.
ognized internationally.  UNI EN ISO 14001
100% MADE IN ITALY – Neodecortech S.p.A. only It is a certifiable standard that gathers requirements, principles and 
Certification system realized by the Institute for the Protection of  supporting techniques to the environmental management system. 
Italian Manufacturers, that guarantees the Italian original quality of  Its goal is to implement, maintain and improve the system of control 
the products. To obtain this certification, the products must be man- of environmental impacts that company activity determined.
ufactured entirely in Italy, made of Italian semi-products, made of  As it requires the Company to improve constantly its performance, it 
high-choice and high quality natural materials, realized with Com- is a commitment to continuous improvement on the environmental 
pany designs and exclusive projects and constructed using typical  issue.
traditional Italian workmanship. UNI EN ISO 9001
FSC – CHAIN OF CUSTODY It is a certification related to Quality management systems; a guide-
FSC is a forest certification system that identifies the products con- line that defines the requirements for the implementation of a 
taining wood that comes from sustainably-managed forests, the  management system, to conduct company processes on a path of 
cellulose is obtained from wood to produce the paper.  continuous improvement and efficiency in product creation as well 
Chain of Custody certification guarantees that FSC certified paper is  as in increasing customer satisfaction.
labelled and stored separately from the non-certified ones, so that  UNI EN ISO 50001
the end product sustainability can be traced. UNI CEI EN ISO 50001 is a regulation related to “Energy manage-
PEFC – Cartiere di Guarcino only ment systems – Requirements with guidance for use”. It is the Ital-
PEFC, acronym of Programme for Endorsement of Forest Certifi- ian official version of the international regulation ISO 50001. The 
cation schemes, is a certification that guarantees the provenance  regulation  specifies  the  requirements  for  the  creation,  launch, 
of cellulose raw materials from certified forests, managed in a sus- maintenance and improvement of an efficient and effective energy 
tainable way. To obtain and use it a company must certify its “Chain  management system.
of Custody”: if they wish to sell certified products labelled with PEFC 
tree, all players of a specific supply chain must not only have their 
own certified CoC, but also purchase certified material to be worked 
from a supplier with its own certified CoC.
20