SR 2017 #2 ENVIRONMENT 2.3 Materials
Cellulose
Cellulose is one of the main chemicals of fibers that constitutes  Company uses comes from the reuse and recycle of production 
wood mass. It is a natural polymer composed by many glucose  waste, in line with circular economy principles.
units, which form thread-like molecule chains of variable length.  For what it concerns cellulose provenance, that of short fiber 
Cellulose extraction occurs mainly from two arboreal families,  mainly comes from South America (Brazil) and Iberian Peninsula, 
from conifers and broad-leaved trees. From conifers, for instance  while the long fiber one comes from South America (Chile) and 
pines and spruces, it is produced a long fiber, also called softwood,  the rest of it from Scandinavian Peninsula. Cartiere di Guarcino 
which fibers a dimension of 2,5 mm and lend mechanic resistance  complies with a careful purchase policy, preferring raw materials 
to the end product and therefore to the paper sheet. From broad- from certified chain of custody, in compliance with certifications 
leaved trees, such as eucalypt and poplar, a short fiber is produced,  schemes recognized at international level. As a proof of this com-
called hardwood, which fibers have a dimension of approximately  mitment, during the last three years, non-certified cellulose pur-
of 1 mm. The use of short fiber improves paper sheet formation,  chased has represented only 2% of the total volume and has been 
printability and opacity. used for secondary product of low added value.
Cellulose constitutes the 70% of pulp for paper fabrication.  Overall in the last triennium, the Company has registered a 
From a sustainability perspective, CDG has always privileged, for  5,33% decrease in the total volume of used cellulose given the 
the production of its papers, the use of waste materials, in par- same production level. This decrease is partly due to an improved 
ticular paper waste recovered from production waste (winders  efficiency in the production process – as plant performance has in-
waste, breaks during paper sheet realization and non-conforming  creased from 94% to 97% - and partly to an increase of high-ashes 
end products) and sub-product (first and second production waste  papers production, that involve a greater use of inorganic material, 
made of cellulose fiber). Moreover, 18/20% of cellulose that the  such as kaolin and titanium dioxide. 
22