SR 2017 #3 STAKEHOLDERS 3.1 Human resources
Training and update
Training activities have a positive impact on human, professional,  In 2017, Group Companies provided 4.613 training hours.
technical and function-task growth of the single employee. These are  Neodecortech believes that a constant and high-quality training 
relevant not only to fulfill law and contract obligations, but also as an  is essential, not only to guarantee occupational safety, but also to 
integral part of Company routine activities for its employees. In Neo- allow the employees to develop transversal capabilities and update 
decortech, training activities are performed with a strategic and com- their  professional  competencies.  Constant  improvement  cannot 
pliance purpose for employees’ constant growth and improvement. and should not be just a mere declaration without follow-ups, but 
Training activities can be divided into 2 macro areas: a working style expressed through a strong professional ethic over 
1. Prevention and safety: goals are established by regulations as  the time and with full collaboration. Knowledge, know-how, aware-
well as according to Neodecortech characteristics and entities. ness, autonomy and task-related technical and professional capa-
2. Technical and professional training and refresher courses for  bilities blend in a single great, stable and constant training project 
single employee and/or groups: goals are set by the Company accord- without an expiration date because it is vital for the individual’s per-
ing to different training projects, with customized paths based on em- sonal and professional life. Neodecortech considers training activ-
ployee’s profile and task. They can vary in duration, complexity, etc. ities as an instrument to improve not only company performances, 
By their nature, all training activities are aimed to achieve the con- but also the transversal capabilities – essential for a constant pro-
solidation and implementation of professional knowledge to improve  fessional growth – of each one.
company performances. Companies make available their resources  Lastly, the Group provided 7 courses on the different certifications 
to start collaborations or external consultancies, purchase/rent nec- adopted, which have involved 57 people for a total amount of 2.514 
essary equipment, involve internal functions for teaching activities. training hours.
44