SR 2017 #3 STAKEHOLDERS 3.4 Local community and territory
3.4 Local community and territory
Neodecortech considers indispensable being open to the dialogue  spective of mutual sharing and growth, the Company has started an 
and debate with local communities and territories where the Group  alternating school/work program aimed to train professionals with 
Companies are located. Over the years it has pursued the goal of be- specific skills, to be included in departments where the growth path 
ing a reliable, proactive, collaborative, transparent entity. The fair  is more significant: productive department, internationalization and 
and regular management of all regulation aspects related to Group  commercial department, R&D department.
activities, along with the guidelines implemented over the years, has  The Company chose the candidates among territory schools and in-
made it possible to establish a collaborative debate with Entities, In- stitutes, with study programs the most pertinent to the insertion de-
stitutions and local Authorities. partments, as well as specialization courses. Over a 10-weeks period 
In 2017 too, the Group Companies was subjected to local author- in Neodecortech, three candidates – selected for their skills, predis-
ities’ inspections (Comune di Filago, Provincia di Frosinone, Arpa  position and enthusiasm –flank with expert departmental tutors for 
Lombardia, and Arpa Lazio) regarding the fulfillment of legal require- their training. 
ments. For what it concerns Neodecortech, the inspection regarded  Given the positive results and feedbacks at the end of 2017, the al-
the conclusion of the trial on the atmosphere emissions deriving from  ternating school/work program will continue throughout 2018 too 
the papers impregnation productive process. The inspections ended  with more projects and pilots in addition to those already in place.
positively, without any formal notice nor fine.
Donations
Training on territory Donations are one of the instruments the Companies can use to ac-
Besides the opportunities of debate due to compliance requirements,  tively contribute to the local community life, sharing success and dif-
Neodecortech firmly believes in the necessity of establishing a dia- ficult times. The donations range depends on territory characteristics 
logue with local communities. According to this purpose, the Group  and needs and can be purely of social or cultural nature. In the first 
companies have been offering internships for over twenty years, both  case, for example: disabled vehicle purchase for Comune di Madone 
for high-school and university students. and a stair lift for local middle school in Filago, donation of defibrilla-
In 2017, the Group offered educational internships and projects for  tors for Comune di Madone and Comune di Filago, a donation to Saint 
30 students that will continue throughout 2018, in collaboration with  Bartholomew church in Marne (Filago) for the missionary school in 
high-school institutes of the territories in which the Group companies  Makeni (Sierra Leone). In the second case: CDG donation to the Tour-
are located. In addition to investments for employees’ training and  ism Development Consortium in Guarcino and Campocatino. Lastly, 
refresher courses, Neodecortech believes in the strategic value of  donations can be of recreational nature, such as CDG donations to the 
dialogue and collaboration with territory excellences. From this per- Guarcino Football Club.
49