SR 2017
METHODOLOGICAL NOTE
The present document constitutes the first Neodecortech Sus- Group. The Group goal is to give continuity to its Sustainability Re-
tainability Report. The Group is composed of the following com- port publication over time on an annual basis. Whenever possible, 
panies: Neodecortech S.p.A., Cartiere di Guarcino S.p.A. (in the  quantitative data are reported in comparison to the two previous 
document, also referred to as “CDG”) and BEG S.r.l. (in the docu- years, so that to highlight gradual developments. 
ment, also referred to as “BEG”), together “the Group” or “Neode- In order to provide an accurate representation of Group perfor-
cortech”. mance, quantitative indicators, directly extrapolated from Group 
Although it represents the first Report for the Group as a whole,  data or official sources, have been included. Estimates have been 
this Sustainability Report is in continuity with the Reports drafted  used only marginally and have always been pointed out. 
in 2015 and 2016 by the holding company Neodecortech S.p.A.. This  The Report is based on GRI Standards guidelines. To properly 
Report edition has been drafted according to GRI Standards guide- define document contents, the Group has decided to include its 
lines – option “Core”- with the aim to gradually align the Group  stakeholders, their point of view and licit expectations, identifying 
Sustainability Reporting to the international best practices. its spokesmen as detailed in the related paragraph. The results 
This reporting model has allowed to perform an accurate as- have been integrated in materiality analysis that has allowed to 
sessment of chosen topics through the materiality analysis as well  identify the issues to be presented in the Report.
as to start a related debate with different stakeholders groups. According to the adopted standards and in order to guarantee the 
The result is a complete description not only of Neodecortech  Report quality, the Report has been drafted with the aim to present 
environmental, social and economic impacts, but also of its Group  accurate, detailed, clear and comprehensible information, so that to 
identity, activities, governance and organization. Document struc- make all stakeholders able to evaluate Group performances. More-
ture, divided into three parts, reflects the main reporting areas: over, the Report aim to represent all environmental, social and eco-
1. Neodecortech: identity and economic performance nomic performances (both positive and negative ones) in a balanced 
2. Environment (environmental impacts) fashion and in line with Neodecortech transparency policy, so that 
3. Stakeholders (social impact) stakeholders are properly informed when forming their opinion on 
As already mentioned, the Reporting framework of data, related  the Group. For further information, clarifications or suggestions:  
to the calendar year 2017, considers all three Companies in the  info@neodecortech.it