SR 2017 #1 NEODECORTECH: THE ITALIAN SIDE OF DECOR 1.3 Governance & organization
Compliance
Neodecortech believes that the compliance with current regulations  Group Companies Codes of Conduct it is specifically pointed out the 
is a crucial aspect for Group policies. need that every activity in the name and on behalf of the Group must 
Legality and honesty in business are considered essential ingredi- be carried out responsibly, legitimately and consistently with Compa-
ents to develop and maintain good relationships with its stakehold- nies goals and regulations. Relations with Public Administration fall 
ers, based on mutual trust and respect. These relations contribute  solely within the remit of deputized functions, which are called upon 
in preserving and increasing the Company value over the time, as it  to observe the principles of independence, impartiality, transparency 
would be considered as a reliable and transparent partner. and decency expressed in the Organizational Models.
The reputation that Neodecortech can be proud of, starting from  In line with the above-mentioned principles, bribery, both active and 
the territory in which the Group Companies are based, is the result of  passive, is strictly prohibited in Companies Codes of Conduct, both to-
a steady operative and managing honesty over the years. wards Public Administration representatives and private party. Last-
Moreover, an increasing rigorous approach to compliance issues is  ly, in line with what the correct implementation of the Model pursuant 
more and more a necessity in the international environment in which  to Legislative Decree 231/2001 requires, all Group staff has attended 
the Group works, allowing a conscious management of the risks that  a specific training course, receiving the Model and the Code of Con-
may arise: equipped with the adequate control system, Neodecortech  duct, and therefore is properly informed about Company policies re-
ensures the compliance with norms and regulations and decreases  lated to anti-bribery topics.
the probability of future incidents that may compromise its future de-
Claims against environmental 
velopment and reputation.
and local community-related issues
Antibribery Over the reporting period, the Group has not received any remarks 
The adoption, by all the three Group Companies, of an Organiza- about non-compliance with laws or regulations related to envi-
tional, Management and Control Model pursuant to Legislative  ronmental or local-community issues. Neodecortech aims to be 
Decree 231/2001 is a tangible proof of the Group will to set its Gov- perceived by the local community as a source of resources and op-
ernance according to the most advanced standards with regards to  portunities for the territory. In this spirit, the Company pays close 
the compliance field. attention to claims, related to both environmental issues and im-
Beyond the scope of the Legislative Decree 231/2001, this kind  pacts on local community, and shapes its activities around decency 
of Organizational Model enhance an increased awareness in the  and transparency standards, consistently with its own policies.
workers about their actions consequences to prevent criminal of- With its strong commitment to a rigorous compliance, Neode-
fences, also through a constant updating and implementation of  cortech aims to formulate and realize “shared” goals with Bodies 
measures in place. and Institutions for a correct Governance related also to environ-
All Group Companies, through the adoption of their Organization- mental issues, safeguarding its own workers and the local commu-
al Models, have carried out an assessment of all activities regarding  nity in general. Results registered up until now have been generally 
bribery-related risks. No process has resulted as significantly brib- positive precisely because decisions are shared and defined con-
ery-risk exposed. Nevertheless, regarding the bribery issue, in the  sensually with the external counterparties.
6