SR 2017 #1 NEODECORTECH: THE ITALIAN SIDE OF DECOR 1.5 Materiality matrix
1.5 Materiality matrix
Specifically, sector-related sustainability aspects, relevant topics  Compared to the previous edition (Neodecortech S.p.A. Sustainability 
to describe Group performance and environmental, social and eco- Report 2016), the Matrix has been integrated and improved consider-
nomic impacts: these are the topics analyzed also through the de- ing the different Report scope, to include CDG and BEG points of view 
bate with its own stakeholders (see previous paragraph), with the  too. Therefore, these two companies have launched a first stage of 
purpose of expressing in a complete and transparent way respective  materiality analysis, through the involvement of Companies key of-
points of view and bring out the most relevant information contents. ficers, with the purpose of drawing an internal evaluation of the most 
The Materiality matrix is the result of this analysis and assess- relevant topics for each Company and their respective stakeholders. 
ment work: it depicts the importance level of each topic for Neode- As a result, “Cellulose” topic has been added to the material aspects, as 
cortech (horizontal axis) and its stakeholders (vertical axis), giving  a fundamental raw material for the industry in which the Group works.
an overview of truly significant sustainability issues. Moreover, the materiality analysis has been integrated with new 
As stated above, the purpose of this analysis is also that of bet- evaluations expressed by stakeholders Neodecortech S.p.A. involved 
ter knowing its stakeholders expectations and interests to kick off  during the assessment performed in 2017, measuring stakeholders’ 
a path of Group performance improvement, starting from external  evaluations according to the importance the Company attributed to 
inputs that are then integrated in Neodecortech strategy and har- each counterparty group. Lastly, the three Companies evaluations 
monized with its principles. have been weighed according to each specific characteristic.
8