Identity and profile 102-2; 102-4; 102-6
The six divisions into which the Group’s activities are organised are:
Banca dei  Focused on the market and on the central role of the territory, with a view to strengthening relationships 
Territori with individuals, small and medium-sized enterprises and non-profit entities. It includes industrial loans, 
leasing and factoring and instant banking (through Banca 5).
Corporate e  A global partner to support the balanced and sustainable development of businesses and financial 
Investment  institutions, from a medium/long-term perspective and on a national and international basis. It includes 
Banking capital markets and investment banking activities (carried out through Banca IMI) and operates in 25 
countries in support of the cross-border operations of its customers through a specialised network of 
branches, representative offices and subsidiaries that engage in corporate banking activity. The Division 
operates in the Public Finance sector as a global partner for public administration.
International  Includes subsidiary banks performing commercial banking activities in the following countries: Albania 
Subsidiary  (Intesa Sanpaolo Bank Albania), Bosnia-Herzegovina (Intesa Sanpaolo Banka Bosna i Hercegovina), 
Banks Croatia (Privredna Banka Zagreb), Egypt (Bank of Alexandria), Moldova (Eximbank), Czech Republic (the 
Prague branch of VUB Banka), Romania (Intesa Sanpaolo Bank Romania), Serbia (Banca Intesa Beograd), 
Slovakia (VUB Banka), Slovenia (Intesa Sanpaolo Bank), Ukraine (Pravex Bank) and Hungary (CIB Bank).
Private  Serves customers in the Private and High Net Worth Individuals segment by offering targeted products and 
Banking services. The division includes Fideuram – Intesa Sanpaolo Private Banking, with 5,834 private bankers.
Asset  Provides asset management solutions aimed at the Group’s customers, non-Group distribution networks 
Management and institutional customers. The division includes Eurizon, with assets managed totalling 266 billion euro.
Insurance Develops the provision of insurance and pension products for the Group's customers. The division 
is headed by the companies Intesa Sanpaolo Vita, Intesa Sanpaolo Life, Fideuram Vita and Intesa 
Sanpaolo Assicura, with direct deposits and technical reserves of 166 billion euro.
A detailed presentation of Intesa Sanpaolo’s organisational structure is available on the Group’s website [i].
International presence 
■
  ITALY
  3,752 Branches
■
  OTHER EUROPEAN COUNTRIES
  863 Branches 2 Representative Offices
■
  AMERICA
  2 Branches 1 Representative Office
■
  ASIA
  7 Branches 6 Representative Offices
■
  AFRICA
  175 Branches 1 Representative Office
■
  OCEANIA
  1 Representative Office
Figures as at 31 December 2019
Competitive positioning
Ranking in Italy 
1st Loans  17.0%
1st Deposits1 18.2%
1st Asset management2 21.1%
1st Pension Funds3 23.0%
Figures as at 31 December 2019.
1 Include bonds
2 Mutual funds, figures as at 30/9/2019 
3 Figures as at 30/9/2019
12