Employees EMPLOYEE ENHANCEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT 103-2
sustainability, making it possible to limit expenses to values compatible with the Group’s economic and 
financial liquidity.
In terms of diversity, the Code of Ethics promotes the specific qualities of each employee, recognising 
their key contribution towards innovation and the growth of the Group. At the same time, it guarantees 
equal opportunities in terms of professional growth and development and access to training courses 
and refresher and role assignment initiatives. The Diversity & Inclusion Structure, created in late 2018 
in the Chief Operating Officer Governance Area, has become fully operational. Its mission is to promote 
all forms of diversity that coexist within the Group: gender, generational differences, disabilities, sexual 
orientation, cultural, ethnic and religious differences.
PEOPLE AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION
People and Digital Technology are key enablers for achieving the goals of the 2018-2021 Business Plan. In 
line with this principle, last year the 3-year Digital & Data HR Transformation plan was launched with the aim 
of digitalising services and processes dedicated to people and creating a single access point. This has made it 
possible to take advantage of the Group’s vast data archive and exploit it for managerial and strategic purposes. 
In 2019 the focus was on consolidating the instruments adopted and introducing new ones. Most administrative 
services and compensation processes were 100% digitalised and made more efficient, making it possible to 
free up 80% of the time spent on them for activities of greater added value. A programme dedicated to Human 
Resources Managers is also in the pipeline; thanks to dashboards and analytics to facilitate quick and targeted 
decision-making, it is designed to support the evolution of HR and provide people with greater assistance. 
Employee Central – ISBD People Data is the application dedicated to the International Subsidiary Banks which 
consists of a database containing the most important personal and professional information on around 20,500 
employees from nine subsidiaries in ten countries within the area managed by the International Subsidiary Banks 
Division, which by 2020 will be extended to the subsidiaries in Ukraine and Moldova.
#PEOPLE: THE PORTAL FOR THE PEOPLE OF INTESA SANPAOLO 
Launched in 2018, this is the space dedicated to all Intesa Sanpaolo Group people. From the portal 
all employees can access their personal profile, which contains their main personal details together 
with their CV and a space for introducing themselves and sharing their professional ambitions, and 
the LECOIP 2.0 and POP (Performance-based Option Plan) section, so they can keep track of their 
personal investment plan. There are also sections on internal mobility, like Jobs@ISP, the internal job 
marketplace with professional opportunities dedicated to all Group personnel (since the launch of Jobs@
ISP in 2018 around 700 searches have been published with over 9,000 applications received, 900 of 
which selected for interviews in 2019 alone, and over 300 resources changing departments as a result) 
and Next, the Intesa Sanpaolo placement and reskilling programme. The Servizi alla Persona (Personal 
Services) section, which gathers together the 300-plus products and initiatives available to employees, 
was launched and registered over 300,000 visits in 7 months. Also present are the Performance 
Management area, the News section and information on the HR world so employees can keep up to 
date at all times. In 2019 two apps connected to #People and HR systems were launched: the #People 
app so the Portal can also be accessed from mobile phones and the Feedback app, connected with the 
Group Performance Management system, which facilitates the sharing of feedback between Managers 
and Employees. Finally, multimedia information is also published on #People to keep employees up 
to date on the most important events and news. With the aim of continuing to provide increasingly 
effective and digital services and freeing people from administrative activities so they can concentrate 
on business, interpersonal and greater value-added activities, in 2020 #People will be integrated with 
new digital services like the system for managing business travels and the Onboarding process to help 
new hires to find their feet at Intesa Sanpaolo.
114