Employees 102-35; 102-36; TRAINING AND EDUCATION 103-3; 404-2; 404-3
team’s results.  
Confirming the importance that the issues of assistance and services for families and work-life balance have in the 
Group’s policies, employees once again have the option of requesting that all or part of their 2019 VRB be recognised 
in the form of welfare services, taking advantage of the opportunities that the tax regulations in the area of workplace 
productivity remuneration offer employees year by year. 
With regard to the long-term plans, two new long-term incentive systems were launched in parallel with the 2018-2021 
Business Plan, in line with the changing regulatory and business contexts. The Plans have the same timescale as 
the 2018-2021 Business Plan, and are tailored to different categories of the company’s employees in terms of their 
purposes and instruments. More specifically, to bring the Top Management, Risk Takers and Strategic Managers in line 
with the challenging and ambitious expected goals of the Plan, an incentive system based on performance conditions 
that uses an option vehicle called Performance-based Option Plan (POP) was introduced. The POP guarantees a 
link between variable remuneration and the Bank’s performance over time, paying out only in the event that value is 
created for shareholders. Following on from the 2014-2017 LECOIP (Leveraged Employee Co-Investment Plan), the 
LECOIP 2.0 plan was set up for the other Managers and employees, and was warmly received by the Group’s people, 
with over 80% of those eligible subscribing to the plan for an Initially Allocated Capital value of around 184 million euro.
TRAINING
In 2019 the Development Policy and Learning Academy Head Office Department organised and launched training 
and development activities - creating new models and innovative methodologies - for all Group employees, as well 
as implementing a multichannel approach that makes learning as simple and flexible as possible. The development 
models and processes include the Teti Competenze initiative, which was set up to map and enhance the technical and 
professional skills of Group people and involved, with a self-assessment, around 64,600 people in Italy. 
The training solutions, based on key skills for each position, prioritised digital channels with quick, simple and interactive 
engagement methods, providing around 11 million hours of training in 2019. There was a further reduction in classroom 
activities compared with the previous year due to the prioritisation of remote channels over traditional methods with the 
development and spread, via the digital training platforms, of new content in various formats (video, audio, graphics, 
text) and with different educational goals. At the same time as the launch of the new version of Apprendo, the Group 
training platform, the new MyLA app, designed together with Apple and co-created with professionals inside and outside 
the Bank, was distributed to over 21,300 users and on around 3,800 iPads in branches. MyLA and the new Apprendo 
are the channels that enable all professionals to access digital training content wherever they are and whenever they 
want, guaranteeing them a straightforward, integrated and innovative experience. In 2019 access to the platform was 
extended to around 67,000 employees, 1,600 of whom non-domestic employees. The percentage of active users 
(those who completed at least one Learning Object) was 96.5 %. In 2019 the platform made over 3,800 training modules 
available and was accessed over 32 million times. In addition to important regulatory issues (Anti-Money Laundering, 
Insurance and pension fund brokerage, Investment services, Administrative liability of entities, Privacy protection) the 
platform also provided instruments for acquiring and updating role-specific skills and expertise. In 2019 the possibility of 
flexible home training was extended to all employees on the Network with over 70,000 hours of smart learning provided 
to almost 4,900 employees (over 14 hours per capita on average). Employees were very positive about the training with 
satisfaction levels of 82% for the digital training and 91% for the classroom training. 
In 2019 Management School flanked and supported over 7,800 Managers and Talents in the Group, including the 
managers of the International Subsidiary Banks. Over 690 videos and around 500 pieces of content were also offered 
in English. The management issues addressed included creativity, inclusion, collaboration, strategy, proactivity and 
learning. As regards cutting-edge issues, in addition to technology trends there were also in-depth analyses of social 
and environmental impact issues such as Diversity & Inclusion and Circular Economy. According to the figures, 6,100 
people used the Management School app, there were over 800,000 content views and the average rating was 4.3 (on a 
scale of 1 to 5). Over the year the School organised around 20 events which directly involved over 2,000 Managers. The 
issue of Diversity was the focal point of three Managerial Discussions and a Meet the Gurus organised in partnership 
with the Diversity & Inclusion structure. There was also an increase in the number of management development courses 
in 2019. With regard to “future leaders”, in 2019 Management School continued to support the International Talent 
Program with learning and development initiatives. 
Z LAB is the 3-year project that Intesa Sanpaolo has created to develop transversal skills and help provide final-
year secondary school pupils with career guidance. As host company, Intesa Sanpaolo provides the students with 
an environment based on interactive dynamics, experiential workshops, project work and the digital culture so they 
can discover and think about the world of work. Pupils are assisted by a specially-created team of around 40 internal 
employees who oversee the workshop activities full time as tutors, with ad hoc training. All of the topics covered are 
contextualised in business activities, also with visits to the head office departments and talks with internal ‘spokespersons’. 
The first three years of the Z LAB project have involved around 2,500 students from 100 schools, hosted by Intesa 
Sanpaolo in 120 workshops, organised in over 20 Italian cities, which overall have provided over 75,000 days (520,000 
hours) of workshop activities. 
116