DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 103-2/103-3 Employees
TALENT DEVELOPMENT
The International Talent Program (ITP) has established itself as one of the most important talent development initiatives 
at a Group level. Launched in 2017 to develop a new generation of managers with an international outlook, the 
Programme is aimed at a target group of employees who are professionals or middle management. The key element 
of the Programme is its personalised development courses of 3-5 years. Each course consists of inter-functional, inter-
divisional and international work experiences, each of which lasting indicatively at least a year. The aim is to develop 
new skills - technical/specialised, behavioral and managerial - and an overall vision of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group. All 
participants in the Programme are involved in specialist and managerial training initiatives in English in collaboration 
with leading Business Schools, in international workshops focused on innovation, and in project work initiatives closely 
related to the Group’s business areas. For each talent there is a sponsorship programme for the entire duration of 
the course, with the direct involvement of Group Senior Managers. The first two editions of the ITP are currently 
taking place and involve 224 people from across the Intesa Sanpaolo Group. In addition, editions of the International 
Talent Program dedicated to specific governance areas were launched in 2019: in March 2019 an International Talent 
Program dedicated to the Chief Lending Officer Area was launched and in September 2019 the selection process 
of an edition of the ITP reserved for the Chief IT Digital Innovation Officer Area began, concluding in December. 254 
talents had participated in the Program by the end of 2019, a major step forward as regards the goal of the Business 
Plan which aims to strengthen the Group’s middle management with 500 talents.
INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY MANAGEMENT
The company population is fairly evenly spread between male and female employees (46% men and 54% 
women). Representing 28.5% of all female employees in the Group, the number of female managers (executives 
and middle managers) as a proportion of all managers rose slightly compared with last year to 39.4%.
The Diversity & Inclusion structure, created in late 2018 in the Chief Operating Officer Governance Area, became 
fully operational in 2019 with the aim of promoting all forms of diversity that coexist within the Group’s personnel.
One of the structure’s first actions was to carry out a survey aimed at gathering feedback from the company’s 
personnel in Italy on numerous aspects of life in the company (such as how well they know the specific inclusion 
and non-discrimination content of the Code of Ethics, how aware they are of the numerous initiatives the Group 
has already focused on these issues and the degree to which they approve them and regard them as useful), 
analysing people’s level of openness and acceptance of inclusive practices and encouraging them to submit new 
ideas and proposals. The ideas collected by the employees, together with the assessment of the best practices 
of other companies, inspired the definition of the Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) strategy. Supported by a process 
involving the measurement and continuous assessment of the results obtained, the strategy forms the framework 
of the partnership with all of the structures involved in various ways in the co-creation and development of the 
initiatives.
The main initiatives launched in 2019 by the Diversity & Inclusion structure focused on, in particular, the 
review of HR processes, specific projects for the development of high-achieving women, sessions on inclusive 
leadership dedicated to the Group’s top management, training for female managers (“Female Empowerment”) 
and a programme for employees on long-term leave aimed at maintaining a close relationship with them during 
their absence and helping them to successfully reintegrate when they return. Additional listening activities were 
organised in some structures to assess people’s perceptions of inclusion and this resulted in the creation of 
targeted action plans which, among other things, involve training and coaching to develop inclusion skills, 
assessment initiatives, debates and internal discussions on various D&I issues.
To continue raising the awareness of managers internally on promoting female talent, a dashboard for monitoring 
the female representation in each Structure was introduced and any eventual gender pay gaps shared. Once 
again this year the performance assessments of over 1,100 managers included a KPI, equal to 10% of the overall 
evaluation, dedicated to the promotion of female talent, an increase on the 900 managers involved in 2018. 
The D&I Strategy also aims to make an impact outside the Bank and to this end the collaboration with Valore D 
(business association that promotes diversity and female talent and leadership for the growth of companies and 
the country) has continued, as too has the partnership and active participation of company Role Models in the 
Inspiring Girls initiative, a project dedicated to lower secondary school pupils which involves meetings with female 
managers from the Group with the aim of overcoming the gender stereotypes that can undermine the dreams and 
ambitions of schoolchildren and influence their future education choices. In this way Intesa Sanpaolo encourages 
female managers to interact with institutions outside the Group, participating in events and initiatives that promote 
female talent. In particular, two managers won the Women in Finance 2019 award, as Insurer of the Year and 
Asset Manager of the Year respectively, while others were involved in events promoted by the Municipality of 
Milan, such as the Stem in the City initiative. In 2019 the company also supported the Women Value Company 
award for the promotion of female talent in small and medium-sized businesses. Intesa Sanpaolo also received 
the Diversity & Inclusion Award again in 2019 which is given to companies that promote job placement policies 
for disadvantaged individuals. 
117