Employees DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 103-2/103-3
In 2019 Intesa Sanpaolo signed up to the Women’s Empowerment Principles promoted by the UN which define 
the guidelines that businesses should follow when implementing tangible gender equality and female empowerment 
measures. 
In addition, at the start of 2020 Intesa Sanpaolo joined Parks – Liberi e Uguali. This association, which works in close 
contact with its network of businesses, aims to disseminate Diversity Management issues with particular focus on 
sexual orientation and gender identity in the workplace. With this partnership Intesa Sanpaolo aims to act as the agent 
of a positive cultural change for all Group people as well as a standard-bearer for society.
As was the case with employees in Italy, a feedback initiative on inclusion issues was also launched among the 
international subsidiary banks in late January 2019 with the D&I Pulse Survey, which involved 20,300 people from 10 
of the international Banks and the head office departments of the International Subsidiary Banks Division. Structured 
action plans to implement from 2020, defined on the basis of results achieved and contextualised according to local and 
regional benchmark data, are being defined in each country. Thanks to targeted actions to promote the development of 
women within its workforce and female enterprise in the country, in 2019 Banca Intesa Beograd was recognised by the 
Association of Business Women in Serbia as one of the banks in Serbia that does most to promote gender diversity. 
In 2019, Privredna Banka Zagreb received the Family Friendly Employer award as recognition for its best practices 
regarding the family commitments of its workers.
Trade union agreements have also taken account of the issue of diversity since 2014 with the definition of the 
Framework protocol on inclusion and equal opportunities, reviewed in 2018, as part of the renewal of the second-level 
collective bargaining agreement, with the signing of an Agreement on inclusion. 
As regards sexual orientation and gender identity, specific company policies were introduced back in 2014 to define 
the framework for the extension of company benefits to same-sex unions. 
In the context of the initiatives established by the Inclusion Agreement, 2019 saw the trial launch of the Back@Work 
project dedicated to people absent from work for long periods, whether due to maternity, leave of absence, illness etc. 
The aim is to keep in contact with people, strengthening their feeling of inclusion and belonging even when they are 
away from the company. A pilot phase for long-term maternity leave was launched.
APPRENTICESHIPS FOR PEOPLE WITH DOWN SYNDROME
To promote the inclusion of people with intellectual disabilities, in 2019 Intesa Sanpaolo, in collaboration with 
a number of local Associations, launched an important project for the employment of people with Down Syn-
drome on apprenticeships. The project began with the addition of two people at branches in Milan and Turin 
following a training course for the apprentices, the branch teams and the tutors. The objective for 2020 is to 
extend the project to other branches of Banca dei Territori and in other cities across the country.
As well as promoting the specific interdepartmental work group that deals with problems connected with the world of 
disabilities and illness, the Inclusion Agreement also involves the launch of two trial projects with the support of the 
Welfare Committee to encourage people diagnosed with autism or autism spectrum disorder to perform data entry 
activities on behalf of Intesa Sanpaolo, and work-study initiatives for pupils with intellectual disabilities with the goal of 
potentially including them in the aforementioned work project. These projects will be partly funded by the Arrotonda 
Solidale (“Round-down Solidarity”) initiative, also included in the Agreement and launched in 2019, which involves 
the contribution, on a voluntary basis among all employees, of the residual amount collected from rounding down net 
monthly salaries to the nearest euro. In turn, the Company will contribute the remaining cents to make the contribution 
per employee a total of one euro. The commitment on the dyslexia front also continues: Intesa Sanpaolo was Italy's 
first Dyslexia Friendly-certified bank in December 2018.
DISABILITY MANAGEMENT
As part of the second-level collective bargaining Agreement, in 2018 an inter-functional working group 
coordinated by the Welfare Function was created to address all problems connected with the world of 
disabilities and illness. The goals of the working group include promoting the culture of inclusion, the 
launch of awareness campaigns and training, and the enhancement of people with disabilities. In 2019 
most members of the working group, together with representatives of all the trade unions, attended the 
“Disability Manager e mondo del lavoro” (Disability Manager and the working world) higher education 
course organised by Cattolica University of Milan. Having passed the final exam, participants were 
officially recognised as ‘Disability Managers’ by the Region of Lombardy. The course laid the foundations 
for a common approach and will be an important tool for the work carried out by the Welfare, Safety and 
Sustainable Development Committee, a bilateral body made up of company and union representatives. 
Many project areas are being developed: from the analysis of processes to continuously improve the 
management of individual requests from workers to the mapping of access to information systems and 
new procedures. In this context, the Clouds of Solidarity initiative continues with the involvement of a 
group of volunteer employees who help people with reduced mobility every day as they arrive and leave 
their work premises with a genuine network of support and social assistance.
118