Employees 201-3
some of their leave or holidays to the bank, which the company will then match, up to a maximum of another 
50,000 hours. This possibility was extended with the renewal of the second-level bargaining agreement in 
2018 with the introduction of new cases connected with childhood illnesses. In 2019 employees donated 
12,860 hours, which were topped up with the same number of hours by the company, for an overall total of 
25,720 hours. As part of the same Time Bank initiative, a corporate volunteering project was promoted that let 
300 people in 2019 carry out volunteer work, on working days for external associations and bodies chosen by 
the Group. A total of around 2,200 hours of leave were granted. 
Maternity and paternity support is provided through an excellent company crèche service in Florence, Milan, 
Moncalieri, Naples and Turin which looks after 255 children, as well as a network of partner crèches across 
Italy. In 2018, the renewal of the second-level Group agreement made it possible to consolidate and strengthen 
the tools designed to provide parental support. Indeed, fathers can request specific additional paid leave for 
the birth of their children, 10% of the sum granted by law for parental leave, 30% of their individual gross 
annual remuneration if they take an additional 10 days of leave once their statutory parental leave has finished, 
and additional days of unpaid leave and leave of absence for the illness of a child or for childcare reasons. The 
series of regulations on parental rights has been expanded, on a trial basis, to include an additional form of 
paid leave to settle children in at crèches or pre-school, and extra days of unpaid leave to care for underage 
children for separated or divorced parents, the exclusive guardians of children, as well as in the cases of 
widowhood and single-parent families. The size of the cheque that the Company pays to employees with 
disabled family members also increased.
With regard to company pensions, the Intesa Sanpaolo Group Defined-Benefit Pension Fund was launched 
in full. The additional insurance coverage available to subscribers of the Intesa Sanpaolo Contribution Fund 
was further improved, increasing the insurable capital and maintaining the already excellent partnership 
conditions. It is still possible to subscribe dependent family members and continue to subscribe to the Fund 
having reached retirement age. The Intesa Sanpaolo Contribution Fund has adopted ESG (Environmental, 
Social, Governance) guidelines for investments.
THE GROUP HEALTH FUND 
The Intesa Sanpaolo Group Health Fund is an NPO that operates on the basis of cooperative and social 
solidarity values for strictly welfare-related ends, offering its subscribers - current employees, retired 
staff and released staff - and their families supplementary and replacement services for those provided 
by the national health service. In 2019 the membership of the Fund expanded to include those from 
former Venetian banks, over 16,000 people including the families of current employees, who in the first 
3 years will benefit from the coverage via the health policy. In terms of health benefits, around €160 
million of services were provided in 2019. The tumour prevention campaign launched in May promoted 
effective information and awareness initiatives regarding the value of the screenings carried out by the 
Italian National Health Service for the prevention and early diagnosis of colorectal, cervical and breast 
cancer. The constant use of the intranet, internet and web-TV channels made it possible to promote 
appropriate and healthy lifestyles, raise awareness of the damage caused by alcohol and smoking, and 
examine the strategies to prevent these widespread forms of cancer. 
In  2019  the  International  Subsidiary  Banks  Division  once  again  renewed  the  International  Healthcare 
Programme, which offers a total of 19,000 international employees with permanent contracts (excluding Pravex 
Bank and Eximbank employees, who will be included from 2020) second medical opinions (also extended to 
spouses and school-age children) and/or medical treatment in centres of excellence (only for the employee) in 
countries that are not their country of residence and/or workplace. The programme provides assistance in the 
event of serious illnesses (cancer, transplants, highly complex surgical procedures etc.), covers treatment and 
complementary service costs (visa assistance, hospitalisation, accommodation for an accompanying person, 
travel etc.), all transport and accommodation expenses in the foreign country, and reimburses all medical costs 
borne once back home. For a number of the companies abroad, the programme has involved - on a voluntary 
basis and at the employee’s expense - an option to guarantee treatment for family members as well (spouse 
and school-age children).
120