Employees
PREVENTION BY PLAYING: NEW EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING COURSES    
More knowledge, less fear: this was the main message of the events organised to raise the awareness 
of employees on the most common forms of cancer and their treatment. A cycle of 25 meetings in 
the main Italian towns during which people were involved in an experiential learning course focused 
on the figures connected with cancer and the virtuous behaviours we can all adopt to prevent them. 
Participants were firstly asked to answer, tying a knot in a piece of woollen thread, a series of questions 
on their lifestyles and in particular risk and protection factors that can be modified, such as smoking and 
drinking habits and levels of physical exercise. The second part of the course reflected more specifically 
on the numbers of people diagnosed with cancer in Italy each year, their ages and life expectancies. The 
experience concluded with the creation of a map of the screening exams we all take periodically. The 
messages were conveyed using an innovative tool, the participatory diagram, which formed the basis of 
an active, experiential and shared form of learning that encouraged participants to memorise and reflect 
on the information presented. This physical and playful approach enabled employees to interact directly 
and see these often little-known figures which may not be fully understood or internalised if only read or 
heard about. Cancer prevention is one of the great battles of our time and often clashes with our own 
psychological barriers. So far, around 3,500 employees have taken part in the events.  
Since 2014 ALI (Intesa Sanpaolo Employees' Association) has been the only Group association in the Group 
Welfare System. With over 150,000 Members in 2019, it offers a wide range of services at both local and 
national level, from social, tourism, cultural and sporting activities to personal services dedicated to the work-
life balance. For the children of Members, as well as a wide range of junior campuses in Italy and abroad, 
it offers - in cooperation with a specialist Company - programmes to help them choose secondary schools, 
universities and/or their field of work. In 2019, for the Christmas Gift initiative dedicated to children of 1 to 
6 the Association supported the Intesa Sanpaolo project to educate children about saving by depositing a 
contribution in the account "XME conto UP!" current accounts opened on the children’s behalf. A one-off 
voucher is given to the families of all babies born during the year which the member can spend at either Amica 
Farmacia or Chicco. The campaigns for “purchasing groups” of quality food products were intensified through 
the Intesa Sanpaolo Destination Gusto platform. This Association also promotes solidarity initiatives, recruiting 
volunteers for initiatives like Giornata di raccolta del farmaco (Medicine Collection Day), Challenge contro la 
fame (Defeating Hunger Challenge) and Noi Insieme- Natale 2019 (Us Together - Christmas 2019), an Intesa 
Sanpaolo solidarity project to offer lunch to almost 2,000 people in financial difficulty at different company 
sites, combining food with culture and solidarity with art. In 2019 ALI completed its member feedback project, 
launched in 2018 and dedicated to less active members to identify their needs and expectations and gather 
information on the measures to adopt to guarantee more inclusive strategies.
Through Fondazione Intesa Sanpaolo Onlus (Intesa Sanpaolo Foundation NPO) efforts to combat financial 
and social hardship have continued and this has translated into support for employees, former employees 
and retired employees in difficulty, and the promotion of art and culture through the issuing of university and 
PhD study grants to students in difficulty. Last but not least, financial support was provided for entities oerating 
directly in the field of solidarity and social welfare. The sum set aside by the Board of Directors in 2019 came 
to around 2.8 million euro, and included a significant allocation for canteens and dormitories for the poor and 
needy.
121