Employees
PEOPLE CARE
People Care, the project launched in 2018 with the aim of improving the quality of life in the company and 
increasing employee wellbeing, continued in 2019 in accordance with the 2018-2021 Business Plan. The 
People Care model is founded on five pillars: the promotion of the current range of personal services and 
the ease with which they can be accessed, the permanent observatory of leading businesses on People 
Care systems at international level, active listening to the needs of employees, support for the development 
and evolution of the current range of services, activation of a listening and support service. With this in mind, 
various initiatives were launched together with an in-depth internal feedback phase consisting of interviews 
and workshops, and an analysis of the good practices of almost 40 domestic and international businesses. At 
the end of May 2019 Servizi alla Persona (Personal Services) was launched, the section of the #People portal 
that gathers together all of the opportunities for facilitating the personal and professional lives of employees 
and their families, with direct, easy and intuitive access to over 300 products and services. It is structured 
with a catalogue organised according to requirement and at the same time proposes dedicated packages 
based on event and simple and intuitive interactive courses. The “Listening and Support” service for people in 
difficult situations or circumstances, or those that simply want to improve their work-life balance and personal 
wellbeing, was launched in the fourth quarter of 2019. After the pilot phase, dedicated to the Regional Offices 
of Piedmont, Valle d’Aosta and Liguria, the service will gradually be extended to the entire Group. It is based 
on the EAP (Employee Assistance Program), an international methodology by which employees are provided 
with psychological, legal/tax and social welfare support. The service is free, anonymous and confidential, and 
available 24 hours a day by telephone. It is also possible to begin a course of psychotherapeutic treatment 
with professionals available across Italy. This service is provided by a European leader in the sector, with 
the collaboration and supervision of the Postgraduate School of Psychology of Cattolica University of Milan, 
which monitors the efficacy and excellence of the service. Finally, in terms of the evolution of the range of 
new services, People Care has a dual goal: on one hand to identify products and services that meet any 
needs that have not yet been satisfied among large parts of the company population, and on the other 
“Wellbeing”, raising awareness of the impact that this factor has on the personal and professional lives of 
employees. Four areas have been identified in which to launch specific initiatives: nutrition, movement, body-
mind balance and caregiving.
COMPANY CLIMATE 
The Intesa Sanpaolo Internal Communications Service is responsible for developing a common culture based 
on corporate values and fostering the sense of belonging of employees. An integrated system which, as well 
as the structured consultation of employees, is made up of instruments like the Intranet, Web TV, Mosaico, 
Mosaico International and the interComm app which foster the continuous sharing of information, engagement, 
the sharing of objectives and active participation in changes. Lots of activities were carried out in 2019. The 
attention was focused on the climate analysis which reveals, every two years, the perceptions of Intesa 
Sanpaolo Group employees using quantitative instruments. The 2019 climate analysis took place in June with 
the methodological consultancy and operational support of a third-party company which guarantees the total 
anonymity of those that take part in the survey. The online questionnaire consisted of 18 questions (12 of which 
also appeared in the 2016 questionnaire to guarantee comparability) divided into 6 chapters: perceptions 
on your job today and tomorrow, the NPI® (Net People Impact Index) and job satisfaction, perceptions on 
the general image of the Group, customer satisfaction and management. In Italy 54.9% of workers in the 
Professional and Middle Manager areas answered the questionnaire, with a satisfaction level of 69%, while 
48.7% of staff in the International Subsidiary Banks answered with a satisfaction level of 78%. Intesa Sanpaolo 
people share the company’s vision and culture, are proud to work for the Bank, and have growing respect for 
and trust in the company management. But structured listening - as a tool for supporting the Top management 
and the company structures with regard to issues and specific requirements or project activities - is not just 
limited to the climate analysis. Once again, over 50 listening activities (feedback, surveys, focus groups, etc.) 
were held this year in Italy and abroad involving almost 50,000 people from the Group’s Governance Areas, 
Divisions and companies.
122