OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-2/103-3 Employees
WORK-RELATED STRESS RISK ASSESSMENT 
Important updates were made to the Branch service models in 2019 with the introduction of new working 
roles and the redefinition of the roles of the professional figures that work in branches. This led to a change 
in the system of relations due to the strengthening of remote offers and channels. To accompany this 
evolution, the specific work-related stress assessment was redone. This activity involved the managers 
of the relevant structures and consultation with the Worker Safety Representatives, and followed the 
methodological procedure indicated by INAIL for the careful analysis of contextual and work-related 
factors. The analysis of the indicators did not highlight any particular organisational conditions that can 
lead to the significant presence of work-related stress. More specifically, the preliminary assessments 
showed that the overall risk level is “low” for all uniform groups examined, indicating focus and 
improvement areas for each one. These findings are backed up by the analysis of employee medical 
check-ups which showed a good general level of health among staff and a below-average frequency 
of stress-related illnesses. An additional assessment activity was carried out on the Online Branches, 
for which an in-depth evaluation was performed involving a sample of employees in focus groups 
coordinated by psychologists from the University of Milan. The assessment highlighted areas requiring 
improvement and the results of the assessment updates are noted in the Risk Assessment Document 
which is available to all employees.   
Following the consolidation of the seismic risk assessment methodology, in 2019 the hydrogeological risk 
assessment methodology was reviewed to determine the Index of the Hydrogeological Risk Level of properties 
(IGRi). More specifically, a pilot project was launched for buildings located in areas of greater risk according 
to the Italian Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA, Istituto Superiore per la Protezione 
e la Ricerca Ambientale) classification and/or situations already documented, such as floods and landslides. 
Additionally, following recent events in the Venice area, a specific activity was launched to assess the IGRi 
and identify possible preventive measures with regard to the “high water” emergency. The health surveillance 
programme continued in 2019 on the basis of the indications of the new health plan introduced with the 
Risk Assessment Document approved in July 2018. Thanks to the new indications in the plan the 2018 
Epidemiological Report included interesting assessments that were more detailed than the past, particularly 
following the introduction of the Work Ability Index (WAI), a tool based on the concept that the ability to manage 
assigned workloads is strictly correlated to the balance between an individual’s personal resources and the 
demands of their job. An analysis of the over 7,000 questionnaires showed that results are excellent in over 
52% of cases and good in 43% of cases. Within the described parameters, there was an evident downwards 
trend according to age. 
With regard to activities among the International Subsidiary Banks, 2019 saw the continuation of the measures 
outlined in the health and safety governance strengthening plan, drawn up together with the Safety and 
Protection Department and the International Subsidiary Banks Division in 2018. In particular, in 2019 the 
Banks adopted the Regulations for the health and safety management systems, issued in late 2018, and 
appointed their occupational health and safety representatives. Local representatives were involved in two 
training sessions organised by Safety and Protection, one held in person and the other remotely. In addition 
to these activities, in 2019 the first operational and training meetings were organised with the subsidiaries, 
involving Bank of Alexandria, Banca Intesa Beograd, Eximbank, Intesa Sanpaolo Bank Romania and VÚB 
Banka.  
125