MATERIALS 103-1; ENERGY 103-1; WATER 103-1; EMISSIONS 103-1; EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 103-1; ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 103-1; 
Environment and Climate change PRODUCT PORTFOLIO 103-1; DIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS 103-1; GREEN ECONOMY 103-1
Environment and climate change
RELEVANT ISSUES
Direct environmental impacts              pag.    130
Greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption            pag.    131
Responsible management of resources               pag.    134
Green Economy              pag.    137
Loans and services for the Green and Circular Economy          pag.    137
Green culture and initiatives              pag.    142
WHY THESE ISSUES ARE RELEVANT 
Climate change is an extremely important phenomenon that is posing one of humanity's crucial challenges 
for the twenty-first century. A constant increase in temperatures due to the growing concentration of 
greenhouse gases in the atmosphere will lead to - and is already bringing about - consequences and 
repercussions not only for the planet's ecosystem, but also at a social and environmental level for 
present and future generations. The seriousness of the phenomenon was confirmed by reports of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) - which, in 2018, highlighted that at the current 
rates of CO  emissions, the increase in the average global temperature by 2030 will be over 1.5°C  
2
(compared to pre-industrial levels), considered by experts to be the maximum safety threshold to avoid 
otherwise irreversible consequences. Effectively tackling the causes of climate change and adapting to 
its impacts therefore requires a collective effort and a comprehensive and systemic view of the problem.
2019 was an eventful year in terms of acute awareness of climate-environmental issues. Millions of 
people, especially young people, took the streets and squares the world over asking for greater efforts 
to protect the environment and their future. 
In continuity with the European Commission's Action Plan for financing sustainable growth, in order to 
accelerate the transition towards a low-carbon economy and the management of risks deriving from 
climate change, the new Commission, which took office in December 2019, presented a European 
Green Deal, a 1,000 billion euro investment plan for the coming 10 years. The Commission’s growth 
strategy is aimed at eliminating, through specific measures, net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 
2050 (carbon neutrality). 
Awareness of the potential consequences of climate change on the financial sector and vice versa has 
facilitated international cooperation, with contributions from representatives of civil society, industry, 
the academic world and institutions at international level. In this regard, the following are worthy of 
mention: the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
and the Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS), the global network of central banks and 
supervisory authorities, involved in the mobilisation of capital towards low-carbon investments and, 
more broadly, towards sustainable economic development.
Intesa Sanpaolo is backing the transition to a low-carbon economy through its actions to mitigate its 
direct emissions and with its support for green initiatives and projects.
This commitment was reaffirmed in the 2018-2021 Business Plan, with objectives concerning support to 
the production system with an environmental perspective, with a specific credit plafond of up to 5 billion 
euro, aimed at companies which adopt the circular model. Furthermore, in January 2020, in the context 
of the European Green Deal, Intesa Sanpaolo stated its willingness to make available 50 billion euro 
loans in the coming years in Italy. As regards direct impacts, the Intesa Sanpaolo Group Environmental 
Plan - Climate Change Action Plan - identifies mid and long-term objectives for reducing CO  emissions 
2
and increasing energy consumption and production from renewable sources.
128