MATERIALS 103-2/103-3; 301-1; 301-2; WATER 103-3; 303-1; 303-2; 306-1; ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 103-3 Environment and Climate change
where the use of tablets, already in place for gathering signatures during transactions in Privredna Banka 
Zagreb (Croatia), VÚB Banka (Slovakia), Intesa Sanpaolo Bosna i Hercegovina, CIB Bank (Hungary), Intesa 
Sanpaolo Bank Slovenia, was extended to sales processes as well. In addition to paperless contracts, tablets 
are also used to simplify and improve the customer experience of clients and managers by offering processes 
that are fully integrated with online platforms.
All the aforementioned actions led to a saving in 2019 of around 2,500 tonnes of paper compared to the previous 
year, amounting to just over 4,000 tonnes of CO  avoided and an economic saving of around 4.3 million euro.
2
With a view to the progressive improvement of reporting in 2019, the quantities of toners used in the Group 
were collected and reported, distinguishing between remanufactured toners, i.e. cartridges that were refilled 
with toner powder from specialised centres, and traditional toners. The figure shows that 114 tonnes of toners 
were used in 2019 of which 60.7% were reconditioned.
Finally, with reference to eco-sustainable stationery, an awareness raising process was launched for all Group 
companies in the purchase of materials with low environmental impact: in 2019, approximately 41 tonnes of 
environmentally-friendly stationery products were purchased. 
OTHER GREEN INITIATIVES
In line with the Rules on sustainability for the purchase of office machines, the Intesa Sanpaolo Group 
assesses the environmental impact connected with the purchase and responsible use of the following 
equipment: photocopiers, printers, desktop computers, monitors, notebooks and ATMs/MTAs. In the promotion 
of sustainability aspects due consideration is given both to legislation and relevant compliance requirements 
in force, as well as to specific environmental evaluation criteria.
Furthermore, Intesa Sanpaolo introduced the Internal Carbon Pricing as an additional element to support the 
purchase process of office machines, thanks to a tool that evaluates GHG emissions generated by energy 
consumption throughout the life cycle of the equipment. 
An important initiative to reduce the environmental footprint was launched in 2019 by the Insurance Division: 
the Plastic-free project was implemented in the Milan, Turin and Rome offices, with the aim of reducing plastic 
consumption. Stainless steel bottles were distributed to all employees, to be used to refill from the new water 
dispensers installed and plastic bottles were eliminated, replacing them with glass bottles. In addition, a gradual 
replacement of plastic stationery with eco-sustainable materials was started.
WATER 
The Intesa Sanpaolo Group’s consumption of drinking water from aqueducts is predominantly related to sani-
tary purposes and, to a lesser extent, the generation of cold air for air conditioning.
In 2019, the Group’s water consumption per person was around 17.9 cubic meters per staff member according 
to the analysis of the expenditure incurred.
The New Headquarters is an excellent example of efficient water management: also in 2019, drinking water 
consumption was again well below the Group average at around 6 cubic metres per staff member, partly due to 
the installation of low-consumption and timer taps, double-flush toilets, and the dual network for toilets using a 
rainwater collection system combined with (if necessary) groundwater. With a view to sustainable and efficient 
management of resources, the HVAC systems of the New Headquarters also use a heat exchange system with 
groundwater that is taken and put back into the aquifer without affecting the water quality.
ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT  
The Intesa Sanpaolo Group focuses particular attention on the monitoring and management of hazardous 
waste for the environment, including radon and asbestos. 
Radon is a gas normally present in the subsoil which can however penetrate into closed environments due, 
for example to the presence of cracks or the permeability of the foundations of buildings; in such cases 
it can accumulate and reach concentrations that are damaging to health. In line with current legislation, 
which for underground work spaces sets action thresholds depending on the concentration level, the Safety 
and Protection Head Office Department carries out campaigns for the measurement of the average annual 
concentration in order to protect the health of employees. Should the warning threshold be exceeded, a 
notification concerning the matter is issued so employees and their representatives are properly informed 
about the issue in question. In addition, a Qualified Radiation Protection Expert is appointed, an external 
consultant who assesses employees' exposure to radon through the calculation of Effective Doses and the 
identification of any risk mitigation measures, mandatory in the event of the exceeding of the Effective Dose 
threshold of 3 mSv/year. No significant risk situations were highlighted in 2019. In Italy two regions set a 
lower concentration limit than the national average for non-residential buildings open to the public: Puglia and 
Campania. In the former, the monitoring of the sites started in previous years was concluded and specific 
interventions were prepared by a Qualified Radiation Protection Expert for the 10 sites where the regional limit 
was exceeded, while in the latter, an annual monitoring campaign was launched in 2019 at all operating sites 
135