Environment and Climate change EX FS4
GREEN CULTURE AND INITIATIVES
Numerous initiatives have been put in place for the dissemination of an environmental culture in respect of 
employees and customers (for the initiatives in the Circular Economy area, see page 139), including:
TRAINING 
The “Apprendo” multimedia platform is available for all employees in Italy: it provides training on environmental 
and climate change issues. The training module "La sfida del cambiamento climatico" (The climate change 
challenge) was provided to some 3,000 employees. The new course “Tutela ambientale e sistemi di gestione” is 
also available and has been completely revised in terms of content and form, which includes 20 training modules 
on environmental and energy issues mandatory for approximately 7,000 employees directly involved in activities 
related to the application of the Management System, while for the other employees a selection of training 
modules is available, with optional participation. 
In line with the requirements for the new ISO 14001 certification, in 2019 the Insurance Division undertook to 
disseminate the sustainability culture also through info-training activities aimed at all the personnel of the Division 
and with specific activities for Specialists, Employers and Delegates. In addition, an employee engagement 
activity was carried out with the definition of a green questionnaire with the aim of gathering useful information to 
understand the level of awareness and attention to sustainability issues, particularly the environment and health 
and safety in the workplace.
Similarly, for the purposes of ISO 50001 standard, CIB Bank (Hungary) trained around 2,000 employees on 
energy issues through an online platform and the top management through ad-hoc training.
The European Regulatory & Public Affairs structure also carried out internal training initiatives to raise awareness 
among employees on environmental issues under discussion with European regulators. 
During 2019 Intesa Sanpaolo Formazione released two new digital training platforms: Skills4Capital and 
Skills4Agri. The former is dedicated to SMEs as part of the collaboration between Confindustria - Piccola Industria 
and Intesa Sanpaolo; the latter is instead dedicated to companies in the Italian agricultural and agri-food system, 
the result of the agreement between Intesa Sanpaolo and Confagricoltura. By subscribing to the platforms, 
users can take advantage of training content and, among the courses provided, three have a special focus on 
environmental sustainability and climate change issues. 
PARTICIPATION IN ASSOCIATIONS AND DEBATES ON ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES
The Group made an important contribution to the international debate on the topic of environmental sustainability 
in 2019. 
With reference to the issue of direct environmental impacts, the Bank continued to participate in the working 
group of the Italian Banking Association (ABI) on Green Banking, which provides an insight into the processes 
relating to energy and environmental management in the Bank according to the main international standards. 
In particular, in 2019 the attention was focused on the implementation of energy audits and submission to the 
competent authorities.
At the European level, Intesa Sanpaolo interacted with legislators, trade associations and various stakeholders to 
promote and represent the Group's various initiatives on environmental and social sustainability. Intesa Sanpaolo, 
through its office in Brussels, brings its best practices to the attention of regulators and represents the specificities 
of its context so that they are taken into consideration during the legislative process. 
In terms of sustainable finance, the Group's collaboration with the Italian Banking Association (ABI) continued and 
intensified, within specific working groups, particularly in relation to issues linked to taxonomy and the European 
Action Plan for financing sustainable growth. 
The Group also continued its collaboration with the main European associations, contributing to the work of 
the European Banking Federation (EBF) on the issue of Sustainable Finance and Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) and the Association for Financial Markets in Europe (AFME). In particular, Intesa Sanpaolo has 
contributed to the drafting of the main (legislative and non-legislative) position papers of the financial sector 
published during 2019.
Moreover, the Group participated in the Osservatorio Italiano per la Finanza Sostenibile (OIFS) promoted by 
the Italian Ministry of the Environment and the Protection of Land and Sea (MATTM), taking active part in the 
plenary session work and in the working groups on the Italian Financial Centre for sustainability and sustainable 
Reindustrialisation (Centro finanziario italiano per la sostenibilità e sulla Reindustrializzazione sostenibile).
Intesa Sanpaolo actively participated in the Project Task Force on Climate-related Reporting of the European 
Financial Reporting Advisory Group (EFRAG). The main objective was the analysis and identification of good 
corporate reporting practices, both as regards the financial impacts of climate risk on companies, and as regards 
the impact of companies' activities on the environment (the so-called double materiality) taking into consideration 
142