Stakeholder engagement Activities and results 102-40; 102-43; 102-44
Relations with stakeholders: engagement and listening
In its 2018-2021 Business Plan, Intesa Sanpaolo set itself significant sustainability objectives that involve 
various stakeholders. In 2019, the stakeholder engagement activities were carried out in accordance with 
the AA1000 AccountAbility standard and used specific engagement methods for the different categories of 
stakeholders, also addressing the topics outlined in the materiality matrix. 
The 2019 activities focused on monitoring, refining and investigating in more depth the priorities assigned by 
the stakeholders in the first year of implementation of the Business Plan. This year, a more specific focus was 
placed on the environment by involving some stakeholders identified on the basis of their affinity to environmental 
issues and sustainable finance. The engagement plan was defined by Intesa Sanpaolo with the collaboration 
of the internal departments which have direct relations with all categories of stakeholder on a daily basis. This 
engagement is documented in minutes taken down in collaboration with the relevant parties and with their 
approval and is managed by an independent third party. The topics proposed to individual stakeholders relate 
to different aspects of sustainability, not limiting the listening process to the issues traditionally connected with 
each category, encouraging broader discussions and new perspectives.
STAKEHOLDER MAP
The stakeholder map represents the Bank's network of relations, with which it exchanges views on a 
regular basis in order to identify and monitor priority topics, including in terms of materiality analysis.
Retail and household customers
Financially vulnerable retail  S
R
and household customers
E
SME customers
S S D
ENetwork personnel RLarge corporate customers L
EStaff personnel EStart-ups O
YJunior employees MConsumer associations HSmall investors
O O E
Senior employees Public Authorities and Public  Foundations
L T R
PManagers SDirectors AInstitutional investors
MTop management UThird Sector HSustainable investors
ETrade unions CProfessional associations SShareholders’ associations
T
N
E Y
S M T
R IAssociations representing 
N N
E
O Uthe interests of the community
I
LLarge-scale suppliers R MRegulatory authorities
P
Small-scale suppliers IEnvironmental associations MNational and international 
P V
UCommercial partners NFuture generations Opublic institutions
SSub-suppliers EScientific community CMedia
ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVES AND ISSUES COVERED
The stakeholders involved in the 2019 engagement activities are: corporate and retail customers, the environment, 
represented  by  the  scientific  community,  the  community,  through  dialogues  with  associations  and  bodies, 
shareholders, in particular sustainable ones, and employees, involved directly and through trade union associations.
Some of these stakeholders were involved in a thematic focus on the relationship between the environment and 
finance, which investigated their expectations regarding the role of financial institutions in fighting climate change.
The findings from these activities were also assessed in relation to the issues previously emerged with the aim of 
conducting in-depth analyses with respect to the 2018-2021 Business Plan.
The following table outlines the methods used to engage stakeholders included in the analysis, broken down into 
individual categories and relative topics, proposed thanks to the listening tools implemented.
150