Stakeholder engagement Activities and results 102-43; 102-44
Stakeholder  Stakeholders Listening method Issues covered
category
Employees Trade unions  1 focus group with 10  ƒ Bank value and solidity
representatives from 5 trade  ƒ HR management and employment protection
ƒ Employee training and incentives
unions 
ƒ Employee well-being (e.g. flexibility and smart working)
ƒ Expectations and comments on the trends linked to the 2018-2021 
Business Plan
ƒ Inclusion and non-discrimination
Italian and  Inclusion analysis carried out  ƒ Employee well-being (flexibility and work-life balance, relationship with 
international  through a questionnaire in  employees and managers)
employees Italy and a D&I Pulse Survey  ƒ Exchange of experiences and skills among employees
for foreign employees, which  ƒ Employee growth and development (growth opportunities, transparency 
involved 20,300 people in  of performance assessment systems, training)
ƒ Refusal of discrimination and actions aimed at the inclusion of people 
10 Banks belonging to the 
with disabilities 
international scope and the 
ƒ More widespread dissemination and knowledge of good practices 
head office departments of the 
already in place
International Subsidiary Banks  ƒ Employment protection
Division.
+ 
Climate analysis conducted 
through three questionnaires 
targeted at the following areas: 
Italy Professional Areas and 
Middle Managers, filled out by 
36,239 people; Italy Executives, 
filled out by 1,047 executives; 
International Subsidiary Banks, 
filled out by 21,513 people.
Overall, two focus groups were held in 2019, over 2,000 telephone interviews with three categories of stakeholders 
conducted, and three online questionnaires were published, that were answered by over 70,000 people. Direct 
listening activities were supplemented with indirect actions in the form of a document analysis.
SUMMARY OF ISSUES EMERGING FROM THE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PROCESS
For each of the stakeholder groups involved in the engagement activities, the main findings that have emerged 
also with respect to the issues investigated are set out below.  
Employees: the company's solidity is also confirmed in 2019, it being one of the central aspects for employees 
who show satisfaction and awareness of the reliability of their employment situation. As regards the enhance-
ment and development aspects, there are strong views regarding growth opportunities and professional skills 
enhancement. Greater emphasis is also being placed on the aspects related to the integration of employees, 
linked to the recent acquisition and reassignment initiatives and in line with the bank's increasingly clear com-
mitment in the areas of inclusion and non-discrimination. 
The implementation of the initiatives envisaged in the Business Plan has led to the confirmation and growth of 
some positive trends already recorded. Among these, the strengthening of smart working and the attention to 
work-life balance play an important role. The employees who were consulted recognise the validity of Intesa 
Sanpaolo's welfare policies, identifying as an additional improvement objective its increasingly effective disse-
mination in all corporate organisations, including through the involvement of middle managers. In the context 
of customer relations, the employees' attention shifts towards digitisation and paperless initiatives, also thanks 
to the commitments set out to this effect in the Business Plan.
On the basis of what emerged from the meeting with the Trade Unions, Intesa Sanpaolo's choice to carry out 
a half-yearly non-financial reporting is welcomed by the employees, who consider it an additional and signifi-
cant element for monitoring the objectives pertaining to sustainability. The disclosure of information on Intesa 
Sanpaolo's commitments and on the results achieved in terms of sustainability thus encourages a more wide-
spread shared corporate culture on these aspects. 
Customers: listening to customers has shown that the aspects relating to the company's value and solidity 
remain of great importance, in particular corporate customers confirm a high attention to the Group's capita-
lisation. The integrity in corporate conduct continues to be fundamental for retail customers. Considering the 
aspects of economic, social and environmental sustainability that do not directly concern customer relations, 
the aspects related to the environment emerge above all others from the listening activities in 2019. This em-
phasis is probably influenced also by the international media context and, for businesses, by the publication of 
guidelines, especially in the context of the European Action Plan to finance sustainable growth. For customers, 
the attention to environmental aspects translates especially into the contribution that the Bank can make to the 
transition to a green and circular economy and to the fight against climate change. In particular, there was an 
increase in interest in the issue of green bonds. The trend to shift attention from the Bank's direct environmen-
tal impacts to indirect ones is now established. In the area of social issues, a high interest in supporting non-
profit organisations and in the social and cultural development of the community is maintained. The attention 
152