102-43; 102-44 Stakeholder engagement Activities and results
of retail customers to sustainable investment funds is constant, confirming the request for the application of 
sustainability criteria in all the bank's activities. At the same time, the loan disbursement to households and 
businesses, of which the Fund for Impact initiative is part, continues to be one of the most relevant issues for 
all customer segments. Particular attention is paid to the financial inclusion of disadvantaged sections of the 
population in 2019.
The material issue Quality and innovation in customer relations, the most intrinsically linked to the Customers 
stakeholder, confirms the utmost importance in all its aspects also in the second year of application of the Bu-
siness Plan. The continued importance of certain elements, such as the introduction of the new branch model 
with Banca 5 and the growth in insurance and consultancy solutions, is in line with customers' expectations 
with respect to the development of innovative initiatives on the Bank's part.
Shareholders: two types of shareholders were involved in the listening activities: sustainable Italian and foreign 
investors and small Italian shareholders in the retail sector. To complement these activities, an analysis of the 
assessment criteria applied by SAM for inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) was carried 
out for the banking sector. The issues that stand out in the 2019 shareholders' listening activities are related to 
the Green Economy and sustainable finance.  
Consistently with the strong national and international attention on these aspects, the new Sustainability Fi-
nance criterion was also introduced in the DJSI. In parallel, sustainable investors confirm a strong interest in 
green financial products and, more generally, with ESG characteristics. The small shareholders show a more 
focused vision and underline the importance of the Bank's proactive role in combating climate change and 
promoting an increasingly circular economy by encouraging positive behaviours in this respect and the disbur-
sement of loans for environmental purposes. In this context, the company's value and solidity becomes the 
consolidated basis on which to build the development of an increasingly sustainable finance.  
The Bank is also called upon to take on a social commitment which translates, for small shareholders, into 
supporting the well-being, education and financial inclusion of employees, including immigrants. Sustainable 
investors continue to significantly and increasingly enhance the value of employment protection aspects, espe-
cially in relation to the organisational and increasingly virtual service model choices for customers.
Finally, the 2019 listening activities confirm SAM's strong attention to the integrity in the company's conduct in 
customer relations, with a focus on the privacy protection aspects, connected with the entry into force of the 
European GDPR regulation.
As part of the focus on environment and sustainable finance, the issues that emerged fall within the engage-
ment activities carried out on the categories of Customers, Environment and Community stakeholders.
The engagement was developed in order to investigate the expectations of the selected stakeholders with 
respect to the global trends that are emerging in relation to the recent publication of guidelines within the sco-
pe of the European Commission's Action Plan for financing sustainable growth and with respect to the role of 
financial institutions in this respect. To this end, individual interviews were carried out which involved represen-
tatives of companies and some of the most influential institutions on the issues of sustainable finance.  
The companies interviewed take account in their development strategies of both the goals of the Paris Agre-
ement and the integration of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), with interventions and investments 
aimed at decarbonisation and the transition to a circular economy model. The Stakeholders consulted share, 
in particular, some of the actions envisaged in the European Commission's Action Plan to finance sustainable 
growth, including the introduction of Taxonomy, a unified system for classifying sustainable activities that must 
be applied by also evaluating the entire industrial policy and its compliance with a low-emission economy. To 
this end, the climate change issue requires companies to properly assess and manage physical and transition 
risks. The Institutions consulted perceive that the European Commission's Action Plan for financing sustaina-
ble growth is a fundamental driver with potential positive effects, with different repercussions on large groups 
as opposed to SMEs. 
The Institutions also attach particular importance to the management of risks deriving from climate change, un-
derlining how the lack of standard and shared measurement criteria can lead to insufficiently reliable reporting. 
Another perceived risk is that ESG criteria remain complementary and not integrated into the business models 
of companies, a particularly high risk for SMEs, whose adaptation it could encounter multiple obstacles and 
require costly and long-lasting processes. Another element risk could be the different transition speed towards 
the new model between the economic sectors and the institutional world.  
All interviewees agree on the leading role of financial institutions, and in particular of Intesa Sanpaolo, in the 
transition to a low-emission economy. The Bank's commitment to the Green Economy is recognised through 
the development of specific tools in support of the transition. In order to further consolidate its leadership role, 
it will be important for Intesa Sanpaolo to support companies in the development and implementation of tools 
that encourage decarbonisation and the circular economy. The Bank could also increase the development 
of financial communication and education programmes on these issues. Furthermore, Intesa Sanpaolo can 
promote the adoption of rewarding criteria for companies that integrate ESG criteria into their own model and 
finance start-ups engaged in the research and development of innovative solutions in terms of decarbonisation 
and circular economy.
153