102-16 Identity and profile
Vision and Values 
“We work to provide quality banking and financial services to our customers and activate ways to promote 
development in all the areas in which we operate.
Conscious of the value of our activities in Italy and abroad, we promote a style of growth that focuses on sustainable 
results and the creation of a process based on the trust deriving from customer and shareholder satisfaction, a 
sense of belonging on the part of our employees and close monitoring of the needs of the community and the 
local area.
We compete on the market with a sense of fair play and are ready to cooperate with other economic entities, 
both private and public, whenever necessary to reinforce the overall capacity for growth of the economies of the 
countries in which we operate.
We take responsibility for prudent savings management, we commit to extending access to credit and financial 
instruments to everyone, and we support sustainable development of the entrepreneurial system, aware that our 
decisions have a significant direct and indirect impact on the natural environment and on the community. We 
want to contribute to the wellbeing (not only material) of both by supporting and implementing cultural initiatives 
and projects for the common good.”
(from the Code of Ethics [i])
The Intesa Sanpaolo Group growth strategy aims at creating solid and sustainable value from an economic 
and financial, social and environmental point of view, built on the trust of all our stakeholders and based on the 
values outlined in the Code of Ethics.
Integrity
The Group pursues its goals with honesty, fairness and with a sense of responsibility in full compliance 
with the rules, professional ethics and spirit of signed agreements.
Quality
The Group’s aim is to continually improve. It is forward-looking and anticipates challenges, cultivating 
widespread creativity with the objective of achieving innovation and worth.
Transparency
Transparency forms the basis for all our activities, communications and contracts in order to enable 
stakeholders to make independent, fully informed decisions.
Respect for specific qualities
The Group’s intention is to combine its international and national dimension with its local roots, becoming 
a bank that “thinks big”, without losing sight of individuals.
Equality
We are committed to eliminating discrimination from our conduct, and to respecting differences of 
gender, age, race, religion, political beliefs, trade union membership, sexual orientation and identity, 
language or disability.
Value of individuals
The value of each and every individual guides the entire modus operandi of the Group, which adopts 
listening and dialogue as tools for continually improving relations with all stakeholders.
Responsibility in the use of resources
We strive to use all resources with the utmost care, encouraging conduct focused on optimisation and 
the prevention of waste and ostentation and prioritising choices geared towards long-term sustainability.
The Group is committed to complying with sustainable development principles and has been involved in 
important international initiatives that promote dialogue between companies, international organisations and 
civil society, and that pursue respect for the environment and human rights.
19