102-12 Identity and profile
Intesa Sanpaolo participates in the Global Compact initiative and is an active member of the community of 
businesses that support the UN Sustainable Development Goals. 
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS   
(SDGS – SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS)  
 
The Sustainable Development Goals were set by the United Nations 2030 Agenda and adopted by all 193 member 
states of the UN, including Italy, at the end of 2015. The 17 Global Goals and their 169 targets build on the 
Millennium Development Goals launched in 2005.  
The Goals aim to:  
1.  End poverty in all its forms everywhere
2.  End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture
3.  Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages
4.  Ensure inclusive and quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all
5.  Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls
6.  Ensure access to water and sanitation for all
7.  Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all
8.  Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work  
  for all
9.  Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and foster innovation 
10. Reduce inequality within and among countries
11. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable
12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns
13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts
14. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development
15. Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems
16. Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build  
  effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels
17. Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalise the global partnership for sustainable development
Intesa Sanpaolo is aware of the fact that many of the objectives set in the 2018-2021 Business Plan are strictly 
connected with certain Sustainable Development Goals. This link is also confirmed by the materiality analysis, which 
highlighted the importance of certain issues both in terms of impact on the Group’s strategies and on its stakeholders. 
Therefore, the link with the Business Plan and the material issues (namely the topics that the materiality analysis 
has shown to be of key importance) have been bolstered by the various Sustainable Development Goals, as well 
as with the actions, projects and results of greatest significance in terms of their positive effects on the community. 
This approach is proof of the Group’s contribution to generating positive change at a global level, through a 
commitment that, considering the loans granted by the Group to support families and businesses, it extends to all 
SDGs and is focused on 11 objectives in particular.
21