102-56
Intesa Sanpaolo Group 
Independent auditors’ report on the consolidated non-financial statement 
31 December 2019 
 
The directors’ responsibility also includes the design of an internal model for the 
management and organisation of the group’s activities, as well as, with reference to 
the aspects identified and disclosed in the Non-financial Statement, the group’s 
policies for the identification and management of the risks generated or borne. 
The management control committee is responsible for overseeing, within the terms 
established by the Italian law, compliance with the decree’s provisions. 
Auditors’ independence and quality control 
We are independent in compliance with the independence and all other ethical 
requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the 
International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on 
fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, 
confidentiality and professional behaviour. Our company applies International 
Standard on Quality Control 1 (ISQC Italia 1) and, accordingly, maintains a system of 
quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance 
with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements. 
Auditors’ responsibilities 
Our responsibility is to express a conclusion, based on the procedures performed, 
about the compliance of the Non-financial Statement with the requirements of the 
decree and the GRI Standards. We carried out our work in accordance with the criteria 
established by “International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (revised) - 
Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial 
Information” (“ISAE 3000 revised”), issued by the International Auditing and 
Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) applicable to limited assurance engagements. 
This standard requires that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited 
assurance about whether the Non-financial Statement is free from material 
misstatement. A limited assurance engagement is less in scope than a reasonable 
assurance engagement carried out in accordance with ISAE 3000 revised, and 
consequently does not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of 
all significant matters and events that might be identified in a reasonable assurance 
engagement. 
The procedures we performed on the Non-financial Statement are based on our 
professional judgement and include inquiries, primarily of the parent’s personnel 
responsible for the preparation of the information presented in the Non-financial 
Statement, documental analyses, recalculations and other evidence gathering 
procedures, as appropriate. 
Specifically, we carried out the following procedures: 
1.  Analysing the material aspects based on the group’s business and characteristics 
disclosed in the Non-financial Statement, in order to assess the reasonableness of 
the identification process adopted on the basis of the provisions of article 3 of the 
decree and taking into account the reporting standards applied. 
2.  Analysing and assessing the identification criteria for the reporting scope, in order 
to check their compliance with the decree.  
   
2 
218