Identity and profile
STOXX® ESG, Low Carbon and Climate Impact Indices [i]
Intesa Sanpaolo is included in several families of STOXX® ESG, Low Carbon and Climate 
Impact Indices. The STOXX® Global ESG Leaders Index selects companies using best-in-class 
criteria, based on the sustainability rating assigned by Sustainalytics. The index includes around 
440 leading companies worldwide.  
Standard Ethics Indices [i]
These indices analyse companies in terms of sustainability, governance and Corporate 
Social Responsibility. Intesa Sanpaolo is included in the Standard Ethics Italian Index, 
Standard Ethics Italian Banks Index, Standard Ethics European Banks Index and Standard 
Ethics European 100 Index.
ECPI Indices [i]
A family of over 50 indices based on the analysis of the public information of over 4,000 
companies. Intesa Sanpaolo is included in the ECPI World ESG Equity and ECPI Euro ESG 
Equity, to name a few.
2020 Bloomberg Gender - Equality Index - GEI [i]
Thematic index dedicated to gender equality: it includes 325 companies analysed in terms 
of five areas of investigation. The initial target universe for the analysis includes over 11,500 
listed companies.
World Benchmarking Alliance (WBA) – SDG2000 [i]
In January 2020, Intesa Sanpaolo was included in the SDG2000, a list that identifies the 2,000 
companies belonging to 7 key sectors which, worldwide, have the potential to influence the 
achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in 2030.
Intesa Sanpaolo has also received some awards in the field of sustainability, in particular:
2019 Sustainable Development Grand Prix - ASSOSEF  
(European Sustainability and Financial Services Association) [i]
The award was given for its contribution to the promotion of the United Nations 2030 Agenda 
for Sustainable Development Goals, in particular for the commitment shown in support of the 
Circular Economy.
2019 Diversity & Inclusion Award 
Intesa Sanpaolo received the Diversity & Inclusion Award, which is awarded to companies that 
promote job placement policies for disadvantaged individuals.
Green Building Council - (Existing Buildings Operations & Maintenance – EB O&M) [i]
In 2019 the Turin Skyscraper obtained the LEED Platinum (Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design) certification from the Green Building Council in the sustainable 
management category. In 2015 the New Headquarters had already received the LEED 
Platinum certification for the construction of the building, thanks to the design features and the 
technological solutions adopted.
27