Identity and profile 102-29; 102-49; 203-2
MAIN VARIATIONS IN THE 2019 MATERIALITY MATRIX COMPARED TO 2018
The 2018-2021 Business Plan specifies the strategies, policies and objectives that guide the Bank in the four-
year period of reference. This document has profoundly influenced the construction of the Matrix presented in 
the 2018 Consolidated Non-financial Statement and the strategic guidelines set out there continue to play a 
central role also in 2019. 
A look at the 2019 Materiality Matrix shows that the most important issues for the Bank continue to be Company 
value and solidity, Quality and innovation in customer relations, Access to credit and financial inclusion, and 
Responsible asset management and customer protection. These areas are touched upon by initiatives and 
objectives set out in the Business Plan which, while maintaining an understandable focus on the creation 
of economic value, opens up to social commitments such as the launch of the Fund for Impact to facilitate 
credit access for certain categories in difficulty despite their potential, as well as the launch of the "per Merito" 
initiative aimed at university students in 2019, and the offer of new investment funds and ESG products. 
Furthermore, in 2019, the Green Economy issue takes an even more predominant role compared to the 
assessment obtained in 2018. This is due to the Group's awareness of the role that a financial institution 
such as Intesa Sanpaolo can play in the transition towards a low carbon economic model and towards the 
circular economy. In this regard, the Bank has made available to the European green deal a programme which, 
over the next few years, will allow the disbursement of 50 billion euro in Italy. Furthermore, in 2019 Intesa 
Sanpaolo issued the first Sustainability Bond of 750 million euro in support of the circular economy, which 
follows the issue in 2017 of the Green Bond of 500 million euro as the first Bank in Italy. There have been many 
initiatives promoted by the Group in recent years: from the establishment, envisaged in the Business Plan, of 
a funding plafond dedicated to the Circular Economy, to the decision to support the recommendations of the 
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), to the disbursement of loans dedicated to the 
Green Economy and the development of sustainable funds. 
Even the stakeholders confirm a high score for the same issues appreciating the Bank's work in financing 
the Green Economy and the Circular Economy and ensuring credit access for vulnerable people or those 
who would not be able to access the traditional financial channels. Furthermore, in the area of Quality and 
innovation in customer relations, more attention is being paid to the aspects of Cyber security and privacy 
protection, also in the light of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
The position on the Matrix of the Employee growth and development issue reflects the attention paid in the 
Business Plan to aspects such as training, enhancement of diversity and inclusion. This aspect is also reflected 
in the establishment of the Diversity & Inclusion corporate structure and, in parallel, is relevant in terms of 
engagement with the stakeholders, who recognise the positivity of the Bank's approach and commitment 
on these topics. Again, with regards to the topics relating to employees, Employment protection confirms 
its importance on both axes of the Matrix. Employee well-being remains stable for the company and for the 
stakeholders, influenced by the numerous work-life balance and welfare promotion initiatives put in place. 
The importance of the Group's commitment to sustainability also emerges from the position of the Integrity in 
corporate conduct topic, connected to the need to monitor reputational risks, and is confirmed by the Bank's 
adherence, in September 2019, to the UNEP FI Principles for Responsible Banking. The stakeholders continue 
to rate the topic highly, signifying that they perceive it as a structural requirement for financial institutions. 
The good score on the 2019 Matrix of the Relations with the community topic, up from 2018, is also linked to 
the relevance of the Food and shelter initiative for the disadvantaged people and to the promotion of art and 
culture, aspects which are both present in the Business Plan. In addition, the Group is showing increasing 
attention to investing in young people, educating them and promoting employment, for example with the 
implementation of the Youth and work programme. Intesa Sanpaolo's social commitment is also reflected in 
the growth of the endowment of the Charity Fund. This is in line with the expectations of the stakeholders who 
ask the bank for a role to support virtuous and responsible approaches for society.
Although relations with suppliers is not a material issue, Intesa Sanpaolo recognises their considerable social 
and environmental value, and therefore provides summary disclosures on this matter in this document, and 
detailed information on the website [i].
30