102-22; 102-24; 102-27; 102-35; 102-36; 205-2 Governance and management of risks
The less-represented gender must be reserved a share of at least one third of the total members (7 members 
out of 19), as established by laws on the matter of equal access to the administrative and control bodies of listed 
companies. Furthermore, in the current structure of the Board, the female gender is represented within all the 
Board Committees, reaches the majority of the members of the Committee for Transactions with Related Parties 
and has the chairmanship of the Risks Committee and the Nominations Committee. 
In May 2019, the Board of Directors assessed its composition as adequate, including in terms of diversity, and 
suitable for a properly balanced composition of the Board Committees.
Senior officers of the subsidiaries are also appointed by the Board of Directors, which operates according to 
uniform policies and principles at Group level and in compliance with the regulations and best practices applicable 
to each subsidiary, with specific importance given to the level of diversity, including in terms of age, gender, 
seniority of service, geographical origin and international orientation. In establishing the composition of the 
Bodies, the most adequate and effective mix of personal and professional profiles is sought for each subsidiary 
in terms of its nature, the structure of its activities and the risks taken. To this end, any indications made by the 
Management Body of each subsidiary during the annual self-assessment process are taken into account.
TRAINING AND UPDATING OF THE DIRECTORS
With the support of the Nominations Committee, the Board of Directors shall ensure that the Bank draws up 
and implements induction and training programmes for the members of the Board. In this context, following 
the Chairman's indications, Board Members' participation in initiatives is promoted to enhance the degree of 
knowledge of the operating sectors of the Bank and of the Group’s companies, company dynamics and their 
development, the principles of sound risk management and the regulatory and self-regulatory environment of 
reference, and in formal and informal meetings, aimed at further review of strategic matters. 
During 2019, specific induction sessions (6 sessions) were carried out including: incorporation of Banca IMI into 
the Parent Company - information on the project, meeting with the Chief Lending Officer (activity presentation 
and project initiatives), IDD regulations on insurance brokerage, regulatory developments in the USA, internal 
models for the calculation of capital requirements and Pillar 2 and IT analysis.  
Furthermore, during the same period 10 onboarding sessions were held for newly appointed Directors regarding the 
following issues: governance of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group, 2018-2021 business plan and 2019 budget, balance 
sheet and tax issues, ICAAP/ILLAP and Group Capital Plan - Basel 3, internal control system, remuneration and 
incentive policies, 2018-2021 Group NPL Plan, IT Plan, Cybersecurity, Innovation and data/artificial intelligence, 
Risk Appetite Framework and Risk Management Policies, Supervisor Relations (SSM - SRM).
To promote better understanding of the reference corporate and regulatory environment and its evolution, a 
collection of governance documents, regulatory references, key correspondence with the Supervisory Authorities, 
accounting positions and any additional documentation conducive to the performance of their duties is available 
to Board Members via a dedicated electronic platform and regularly updated.
The Board of Directors receives periodic reports from the corporate control functions on their activities, which 
illustrate the checks carried out, the results achieved, the weaknesses found and the proposals for action to be 
taken to eliminate them within the various company areas. These reports shall also cover anti-corruption issues. 
Several Directors also hold positions on the Boards of Directors of leading Italian universities as well as on the 
Boards of foundations and Third Sector bodies active in the fields of art and culture, health, support for poverty 
and the circular economy and support for nutrition policies. In particular, a member of the Board of Directors, as 
well as Chairman of the Risks Committee, is a member of the Creares Scientific Council, a Centre for Research 
in Business Ethics and Social Responsibility which aims, among other things, to enhance research on business 
ethics, ethical finance, corporate governance and social reporting.  
REMUNERATION
Full information, both in qualitative and quantitative terms, is provided in the Report on the remuneration policy 
and the remuneration paid ("Remuneration Report"), available on the website [i].
The Bank’s Articles of Association envisage that the members of the Board of Directors be entitled, in addition 
to the reimbursement of expenses incurred due to their office, to a remuneration for the services rendered, 
Which is determined, upon appointment, by the Shareholders' in a fixed amount for the entire period of their 
office. The Shareholders' Meeting also determines the additional remuneration for the office of Chairman 
and Deputy Chairperson. Pursuant to the Articles of Association, the Shareholders' Meeting has the duty to 
determine, at the time of the appointment of the Management Control Committee and for the entire term of 
office, specific remuneration for the Board Members of this Committee, consisting of an equal amount for each 
Member, but with a special addition for the Chairman. 
Pursuant to the Articles of Association, the Managing Director is entitled to receive a fixed and variable 
remuneration tied to the position of General Manager, determined by the Board of Directors in line with the 
Remuneration and Incentive Policies approved by the Shareholders' Meeting. 
As required by the Supervisory Provisions, in accordance with the principle of external competitiveness and 
35