Governance and management of risks 102-35; 102-36; MARKET PRESENCE 103-3; INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 103-3
in order to support the achievement of the ambitious objectives set out in the 2018-2021 Business Plan, the 
Shareholders' Meeting resolved to increase the incidence of variable remuneration to fixed remuneration up to 
a maximum of 2:1 for Group Risk Takers, including the Managing Director and General Manager.
The variable component of remuneration, bound to the achievement of specific performance objectives linked to 
the creation of value for shareholders and adjusted for the risks assumed, is composed of the Annual Incentive 
System and 2018-2021 POP (Performance-based Option Plan) Long-Term Incentive Plan. In accordance with 
the Supervisory Provisions and the Group's Remuneration and Incentive Policies, both the short- and long-
term variable components are subject to deferral and partly assigned in financial instruments subject to holding 
periods after the vesting period.
Specifically, under the Annual Incentive System, if the bonus accrued is equal to or less than 100% of the 
fixed remuneration, 55% is paid in shares and the remainder in cash. On the other hand, if the bonus accrued 
is more than 100% of the fixed remuneration, 60% is paid in shares and 40% in cash. Furthermore, the 
disbursement of 60% of the bonus is deferred for 5 years. 
The payment of the deferred amounts is subject to the verification of the malus conditions each year. 
Finally, the company reserves the right to activate claw-back mechanisms on bonuses already paid in the 5 
years following their payment in the event of disciplinary measures against fraudulent or grossly negligent 
conduct and in the event of conduct that does not comply with the provisions of the law, regulations, articles 
of association or any codes of ethics or conduct resulting in a "significant loss" for the Bank or for customers.
THE INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
To ensure sound and prudent management, which combines business profitability with informed risk taking 
and operating conduct underpinned by fairness, the Bank has adopted the Integrated Internal Control System 
Regulations. 
The internal control system has been designed to achieve constant monitoring of the identification, governance 
and control of the risks involved in our activities and is based on three levels:
First level: consisting of line controls, which are aimed at ensuring the proper conduct of the operations 
which, where possible, are incorporated into IT procedures. These are carried out by the Operating 
First  u and business structures themselves (“Level I Functions”), including through units dedicated solely 
to control duties or performed as part of the back-office functions.
level
Second level: consisting of risk and compliance controls, whose objectives include ensuring the correct 
implementation of the risk management process; observance of operating limits assigned to the various 
functions; and compliance of the company’s operations with regulations, including self-governance rules. 
These controls are performed by the Structures of the Governance Areas of the Chief Compliance Officer, 
Second  u to whom the Anti Financial Crime Head Office Department also reports, and the Chief Risk Officer, to 
level 
whom the Internal Validation and Controls Head Office Department reports. These structures (known 
as the “Level II Control Functions”) are separate from the operating structures and from internal auditing.
Third level: consisting of internal audit controls – assigned to the Chief Audit Officer – to identify 
breaches of procedures and regulations, as well as to periodically assess the completeness, adequacy, 
Third  u functionality (in terms of efficiency and effectiveness) and reliability of the organisational structure of the 
other components of the internal control system and the IT system at Group level.
level
36