Governance and management of risks
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS AND THE FINANCIAL COMMUNITY
In its relations with the market, Intesa Sanpaolo adopts a specifically transparent form of conduct, especially 
with regard to annual and interim financial results and to Group strategies. This also takes place via meetings 
with the national and international financial community, in a framework of constant dialogue with the market 
based on fair and timely communication.
During 2019, communications with the financial community continued to focus on sustainable profitability and 
the Group’s solidity as a firm point of reference for stakeholders. To guarantee access to all, again in 2019 this 
information was made available quickly, easily and economically through a number of channels like Internet 
and conference calls via a freephone number. The Investor Relations section of the website [i] boasts well-
organised content and updates on topics, always providing stakeholders with extensive, systematic information.
In order to contribute to the creation of sustainable value over time, regular and frequent meetings were held 
with the financial community that consolidated long-term relations based on mutual trust.
Special attention was also paid to SRI (Socially Responsible Investment) investors and analysts, with dedicated 
events and road-shows.
INTESA SANPAOLO STOCK PERFORMANCE  
The performance of the Intesa Sanpaolo ordinary shares in 2019 mirrored that of the banking sector indices, 
showing an upward trend until mid-April, followed by a sharp downturn until early June, when they reached 
their lowest point. After that the shares performed unevenly until mid-August and then rebounded, reaching 
their peak on 20 December and ending the year up 21.1% on the end of 2018.
Intesa Sanpaolo’s capitalisation rose to 41.1 billion euro at the end of December 2019, from 34 billion euro at 
the end of 2018.
The Board of Directors shall propose to the Shareholders' Meeting to allocate 0.192 euro per share, totalling 
approximately 3.4 billion euro.
SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING
For the Bank, Shareholders’ Meetings are one of the main opportunities for contact and dialogue with 
shareholders, as well as important occasions for the disclosure of news, in accordance with the principle of 
non-selective disclosure and rules on price sensitive information. At the same time, the Shareholders' Meeting 
represents for shareholders an opportunity for active participation in the Bank’s operations and a chance 
to express their opinions, through the methods and on the topics envisaged by law and by the Articles of 
Association. 
Intesa Sanpaolo has always strived to encourage the broadest possible participation in the Shareholders’ 
Meetings and to guarantee the best quality standards for the information provided in order to realise the full 
potential of the meeting. 
The Shareholders’ Meeting is called by the Board of Directors whenever it is deemed appropriate, or upon 
request by Shareholders representing at least one twentieth of the share capital. 
The Shareholders’ Meeting may also be called by the Management Control Committee, where required for the 
fulfilment of its duties, subject to sending notice thereof to the Chairman of the Board of Directors. 
In 2019, the ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting was held on 30 April.
RIGHT TO ATTEND AND VOTE
Each share gives the right to attend and vote at Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings (each 
share carries one voting right).
38