102-18; 102-19; 102-20; 102-21; 102-22; 102-26; 102-31; 102-32; 102-33 Governance and management of risks
Sustainability Governance
The strategic guidelines and policies on sustainability (ESG – Environmental, Social, Governance) are 
approved by the Board of Directors with the support of the Risks Committee, taking into account the objectives 
of solid and sustainable creation and distribution of value for all stakeholders.
In its 2018-2021 Business Plan, Intesa Sanpaolo committed to strengthening its leadership in corporate 
social responsibility, aiming to become a model of reference in terms of sustainability and social and cultural 
responsibility.
The main ESG responsibilities of the Intesa Sanpaolo Bodies and Structures are specified below.
With the support of the Risks Committee, the Board of Directors approves the 
Code of Ethics and its updates as well as the strategic guidelines and policies 
u on sustainability (ESG), including the social and cultural responsibility model 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS and the fight against climate change, taking into account the objectives of 
solid and sustainable creation and distribution of value for all stakeholders. 
With the support of the Risks Committee it also approves the CNFS, ensuring 
that it is drafted and published in compliance with applicable regulations.
The Committee supports the Board in assessing and analysing sustainability 
issues (ESG) related to the Bank's operations and in approving the strategic 
guidelines and policies on sustainability, including the social and cultural 
responsibility model and the fight against climate change, helping to ensure 
the best possible risk monitoring and taking into account the objectives of 
u
RISKS COMMITTEE solid and sustainable creation and distribution of value for all stakeholders. 
It also supports the Board in the approval of the Code of Ethics and the 
CNFS, in particular by examining the contents of the materiality matrix, which 
identifies the most potentially relevant issues in the area of sustainability.
With the support of the functions responsible for sustainability (ESG) and 
internal auditing, the Management Control Committee monitors compliance 
with the principles and values contained in the Code of Ethics. With regard 
MANAGEMENT CONTROL  u to the CNFS, it monitors compliance with the provisions set out in Italian 
COMMITTEE Legislative Decree no. 254/2016 and reports on this in its annual report to 
the Shareholders' Meeting.
The Managing Director and CEO governs the sustainability performances 
u and has the power to submit proposals to the Board for the adoption of 
MANAGING DIRECTOR AND CEO
resolutions within its remit.
The Committee collaborates in the identification of sustainability issues (ESG) 
that are potentially relevant for the definition and updating of the materiality 
matrix. Taking into account the objectives of solid and sustainable creation 
and distribution of value for all stakeholders, it collaborates in the definition of 
STEERING COMMITTEE u strategic guidelines and sustainability policies (ESG), including the model of 
social and cultural responsibility and the fight against climate change, which 
the Managing Director and CEO submits to the relevant Board Committees 
and the Board of Directors. It also examines the CNFS prior to its presentation 
to the Board. In addition, it also has the task of addressing the coherence of 
technological development, with specific reference to artificial intelligence/
machine learning, with the Group's ethical principles.
Within the Financial Market Coverage Department of the Chief Financial 
Officer Governance Area, Corporate Social Responsibility oversees the 
process of defining, approving and updating the guidelines on sustainability, 
in accordance with the company's strategies and objectives. It also updates 
CORPORATE SOCIAL  u
the Code of Ethics and monitors its application with the support of the 
RESPONSIBILITY
function responsible for internal audits. It draws up the CNFS. It oversees 
relations with the financial community with respect to sustainability issues. 
It oversees the promotion and implementation of sustainability aspects in 
the Group's strategies and operations, including climate change issues, 
also in collaboration with other structures. It is responsible for the Group's 
communication and training activities on sustainability. It oversees stakeholder 
involvement with respect to sustainability issues.
The sustainability governance system is based on the strong involvement of the Risks Committee, established 
within Board of Directors to offer support, including in the assessment and analysis of ESG issues. To this end, 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) periodically meets with the Committee to agree upon the approach and 
report on the progress of processes and activities related to sustainability and non-financial reporting. In 2019, it 
39