ANTI-CORRUPTION 103-1; 205-2; ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR 103-1/103-2; NON DISCRIMINATION 103-1; PUBLIC POLICY 103-1; 
CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-1; MARKETING AND LABELLING 103-1; CUSTOMER PRIVACY 103-1; 
SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 103-1; AUDIT 103-1; INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE CONDUCT 103-1 Governance and management of risks
Integrity in corporate conduct
RELEVANT ISSUES
Fighting against corruption                pag.    52
Combating money laundering                  pag.    54
Compliance with tax regulations                pag.    55
Protection of free competition                 pag.    57
Privacy protection                pag.    57
Compliance with labour laws                 pag.    58
Audits                 pag.    59
Disputes and fines                pag.    60
WHY THESE ISSUES ARE RELEVANT  
The Intesa Sanpaolo Group recognises that compliance with internal and external regulations and codes 
of conduct is of significant importance, also from a strategic viewpoint, and therefore it acts in the belief that 
respecting standards and fairness in business are essential elements in carrying out banking operations, 
which by nature are based on trust and transparency. Indeed, Intesa Sanpaolo believes that compliance 
with standards encourages the creation and maintenance of a competitive economic environment and 
protection of customer rights, which contributes to the development of local areas and communities.
Intesa Sanpaolo also seeks to be a reliable and professional partner for the regulators. In this context, 
the Group actively adheres to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact that envisage the 
development of policies for combating corruption, protecting human rights, workers’ rights and safeguarding 
the environment.
The Group has defined and implemented a well-structured system of risk assessment throughout the 
company structures, which is applied according to risk assessment criteria. Adherence to the rules and 
integrity of corporate conduct are also ensured through compliance activities focused on the monitoring of 
risk in relation to fighting corruption and money laundering, combating the financing of terrorism, embargo 
management and protecting competition. The Group adheres to the principle of active cooperation in 
preventing these phenomena, which represent a serious threat to the legal economy. Intesa Sanpaolo 
monitors developments in international tax regulations guided by the OECD and aimed at countering base 
erosion and profit shifting from high-tax to low-tax countries, with the ongoing commitment to adhere to 
those principles. Internal auditing involves constant and independent monitoring of the due conduct of the 
Group's operations and processes.
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND RESULTS ACHIEVED
Macro-issue Projects/Indicators 2019 Actions/Results
Fighting against  Training to prevent corruption and  77,383 employees trained (87.3% of the total)
corruption and  money laundering
306,937 hours provided  
combating money 
laundering Disciplinary sanctions due to staff  0
corruption
Dismissals due to corruption 0
Internal advice and clearing on  228 
transactions in the highest corruption 
risk areas
 
 
Certifications   Received the certificate of compliance of its anti-bribery 
management system with UNI ISO 37001 international 
standards
51