ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR 103-2/103-3; CUSTOMER PRIVACY 103-2 Governance and management of risks
branches’ income is also taxed in Italy.
In compliance with the applicable regulations, Intesa Sanpaolo also publishes a country-by-country disclosure 
in which the following information is provided for each country (according to the rules established by the Bank 
of Italy): gross income, number of employees, profit or loss before tax and tax on profit or loss. The report is 
available at the following link [i].
PROTECTION OF FREE COMPETITION
The Group constantly monitors and promotes free competition, and spreads a culture of compliance with anti-
trust regulations, working to ensure that the international, European and national rules and procedures are 
effectively applied and observed. 
In the Group’s Code of Ethics, Intesa Sanpaolo declares its commitment to compete fairly in the market and 
cooperate with other economic, private and public entities, whenever necessary, to strengthen the overall 
capacity of the countries where the Group operates. The Bank has an ongoing commitment to manage 
relations with institutions and organisations, in monitoring existing regulations and in conducting attentive 
advocacy on any bills that could impact the activities of the Group and of its stakeholders at the national, 
European and international level, with a view to limiting legal, economic and reputational risks and exploiting 
new opportunities. 
Due to the growing importance of antitrust issues, the Group has long since adopted a risk control system for 
antitrust non-compliance, under the responsibility of the Institutional Affairs Department. In this regard, it has 
adopted an extensive Antitrust Compliance Program that among its key elements includes the establishment of 
a specific internal team to monitor compliance with antitrust rules, the adoption of a Group Antitrust Regulation 
(which has incorporated the Antitrust Compliance Policy), the Antitrust Conduct Rules and the Antitrust 
Inspection Rules, as well as a training and information programme. The control of this area has been extended 
beyond the more traditional forms of antitrust (mergers, abuses of dominant positions and agreements) to also 
include EU regulations on state aid and the recent Italian regulations in support of Italy's competitiveness. 
In 2019 the Group continued to raise awareness and spread the culture of antitrust compliance within the 
Group through the creation of 10 Web TV clips, the publication of 14 articles for the Group's communications 
magazine "Mosaic" (also translated in English) and the circulation of specific "Antitrust Update" reports. During 
the year, a series of remote and classroom training initiatives were also carried out on specific topics within 
various Group companies. The Apprendo platform offers employees in Italy the collection "Antitrust... just 
rules or market support?”. The promotion of a culture of competition has enabled the Antitrust Affairs Structure 
to attain an important recognition in the "Competition" category of the 7th edition of the TopLegal Corporate 
Counsel & Finance Awards.
PRIVACY PROTECTION 
Intesa Sanpaolo is continually committed to implementing regulatory, organisational and technological measures 
aimed at adequately meeting the needs of privacy protection. These actions reflect the principles of the Group’s 
Code of Ethics which commit the Bank to adopting criteria of absolute transparency in informing customers and 
employees about their data privacy rights and how their personal information is processed. This commitment is 
set out in Company rules for the processing of personal data and in Guidelines on the protection of personal data 
of private individuals, approved by the Board of Directors, which provide an overall framework for conduct for all 
Bank staff, as well as for those who work in cooperation with it. The EU Regulation no. 2016/679 of the European 
Parliament and Council of 27 April 2016 General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which came into force on 
25 May 2018, makes each data controller responsible, based on the principle of accountability, for implementing 
regulatory, organisational and technological measures to adequately comply, following a risk-based approach, 
with the regulatory principles of the GDPR: Data Protection by design and by default, appointment of the Data 
Protection Officer, Privacy Impact Assessment, Register of Processing Activities, subjective role of Third Parties, 
and Data Breach. The GDPR alignment project under the responsibility of the Privacy structure has defined the 
organisational measures and continues to develop the technological and IT security measures needed to comply 
with the requirements of the European Regulation in Italy and for the Group's companies located within the EU, 
following a risk-based logic and depending on the solutions available on the market and the complexity of the 
measures.
The Data Protection Officer, who is supported by the Privacy structure in the Safety and Protection Head Office 
Department, provides supervision, for the Parent Company and the Group Companies that have signed specific 
service agreements, of the privacy regulations, ensuring the adoption of the related updates and regulatory 
57