Governance and management of risks NON DISCRIMINATION 103-3; 406-1; ANTI-CORRUPTION 103-2/103-3; SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 103-2; AUDIT 103-2; EX FS9
WHISTLEBLOWING
Since 2016, a whistleblowing system has been in place, which allows employees to report actions or 
occurrences that could constitute breaches of the regulations governing banking activities (whistleblowing). 
Whistleblowing, which ensures the confidentiality of the individual making the report without the risk of 
retaliatory, unfair or discriminatory behaviour, encourages employees (including suppliers and consultants) 
to report acts or conduct they become aware of that may constitute a breach of the regulations governing 
banking activities or related activities that may also be instrumental to a breach or other illicit conduct. The 
Chief Audit Officer is responsible for ensuring the correct performance of the process; in 2019 a total of 17 
reports were received, of which 7 were judged not pertinent whereas 10 resulted in the launch of specific 
investigations.
DISPUTES AND FINES
As at 31 December 2019, a total of about 22,000 disputes, other than tax disputes, were pending at Group 
level for a total amount of around 5,635 million euro. This amount includes all outstanding disputes, regardless 
of the estimated risk of a disbursement of financial resources resulting from a potential negative outcome and 
therefore also includes disputes with a remote risk. The risks associated with these disputes are thoroughly 
and individually analysed by the Parent Company and Group companies. 
In terms of tax litigation, there were disputes pending amounting to a total of 365 million euro for the Group. 
With regard to compliance with environmental regulations, for damage caused to the environment as a result 
of the Bank's operations and in relation to health and safety, over the last three years, no significant reports 
emerged and no fines were imposed (see page 160). 
With regard to labour litigation, at the end of December 2018 there were no significant disputes from either a 
qualitative or quantitative standpoint. 
For information on the legal risks and the most significant civil, administrative and penal lawsuits, please refer 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements (see page 487 ff.) [i].
60