Society
the international banks, which gathers the opinions of customers during their interactions with the bank and 
consequently resolves any problems that arise. In 2019, qualitative KPIs were also introduced to measure 
the perceived quality of service in the branch, and in line with the relaunch of Retail activities in Pravex Bank 
(Ukraine) the first Net Promoter Score project was launched with 16% response levels. With regard to the 
SMEs, internal and benchmarking initiatives were carried out in CIB Bank in Hungary, Banca Intesa Beograd in 
Serbia, VÚB Banka in Slovakia and Privredna Banka Zagreb - PBZ in Croatia, as well as the corporate segment 
in Banca Intesa Beograd in Serbia. A total of 3,500 companies were involved, and the results highlighted the 
role of managers in listening to customers as a strength.
LISTENING TO INSURANCE CUSTOMERS
At the end of 2019, the Insurance Division launched a Customer Satisfaction survey system that involves 
all calls received to Customer Service on a voluntary basis using a 2-question questionnaire to assess the 
Service. This initiative is in addition to the already active initiative to measure the Customer Experience of 
Non-Life business customers who expressed a significant level of satisfaction in 2019: on a scale of 0 to 10, 
the average score was 8.9 for roadside assistance; 8.5 for home care; 8.8 for Motor liability claims and 7.9 for 
paid Home claims.
LISTENING TO CUSTOMERS IN FIDEURAM INTESA SANPAOLO PRIVATE BANKING
In 2019, a Customer Satisfaction survey of the Private Banking Division was carried out for the first time on the 
Fideuram and Sanpaolo Invest Networks and the Intesa Sanpaolo Private Banking Network. The survey took 
into account the distinctive traits of the two service models and was conducted through questionnaires, to which 
33,860 customers replied (25,084 for the Fideuram Network, 6,667 for the Sanpaolo Invest Network and 2,109 
for the Intesa Sanpaolo Private Banking Network). The results of the survey confirmed a high level of customer 
satisfaction for all three networks. The relationship with the Private Banker is always the fundamental element 
for the appreciation of the service offered: customers recognise availability, expertise and professionalism as 
well as the ability to customise solutions and regularity in the relationship. The NPS was 47 and the Customer 
Satisfaction Index was 8.5. In particular, the survey conducted on the Fideuram and Sanpaolo Invest Networks 
shows that customers recognise among their strengths solidity, reliability, a large Group supporting them, 
multi-channel, the best professionals, attention to customers and quality of services. The survey of the Intesa 
Sanpaolo Private Banking Network found that other important qualities are the understanding of customers' 
needs and the ability to make them feel like privileged customers, as well as the attention to privacy and the 
ability to anticipate critical issues. The customers of the Fideuram and Sanpaolo Invest Networks were asked 
some questions regarding ESG investments in order to investigate their knowledge and propensity to invest 
in ESG products. It was found that ESG issues are known to about 60% of customers and 41% believe that 
ESG investments create value for themselves and for the community and the environment. The percentage 
rises to 48% if we consider the private customer segment or the segment of customers with an aggressive risk 
profile. Moreover, around 30% of customers are willing to invest more than 30% of their assets in sustainable 
products.
MANAGEMENT OF COMPLAINTS
The Intesa Sanpaolo Group maintains an ongoing dialogue with its customers to ensure that their relationship 
remains excellent. To consolidate this trusting relationship, fundamental importance is attached to the careful 
and prompt management of complaints and other applications made which express customer dissatisfaction.
In Italian law, the regulations issued by the relevant supervisory authorities provide for specific information 
requirements by the Compliance Function, with the aim of reporting at least once a year to corporate bodies 
and authorities on the overall situation of complaints received, as well as on the adequacy of the procedures 
and organisational solutions adopted.
The regulatory, procedural and organisational framework adopted by the Group is defined by the Guidelines for 
managing complaints, disclaimers and protests to the Supervisory Authority and appeals to alternative dispute 
resolution Bodies, approved in 2016 by the Board of Directors of the Parent Company and subsequently 
implemented by the various members of the Group.
In 2019, a total of 102,057 complaints1 were registered at a Group level, broken down as follows:
Banca dei Territori: a total of 51,514 complaints were registered (down 3% compared to 2018) of which 39,841 
related to Group Banks and Companies2 and Banca 5 (+5% compared to 2018) and 11,673 submitted by 
former Accedo clients (down 23%).
During 2019, 37,972 complaints and reiterations were settled, of which 10,096 were accepted and, among 
these, 2,648 entailed disbursements; on the other hand, with regard to the management of complaints relating 
to previous Accedo activities, a further 3,912 complaints and reiterations entailed disbursements.
1 The claims include complaints and their possible reiteration (customer appeals), appeals to out-of-court dispute resolution bodies (ADR appeals) and requests for clarifications made 
by supervisory authorities in response to customer reports (reports).
2 Banks in the BdT Division (Cassa di Risparmio in Bologna, Banca CR Firenze, CR Pistoia e Lucchesia, Banca Apulia, Banca Prossima and Mediocredito) merged into the Parent 
Company during 2019. 67