Society CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-2; 416-1; MARKETING AND LABELLING 103-2; 416-1; 417-1; 417-2; 417-3; EX FS15
CUSTOMER PROTECTION AND RESPONSIBLE SALES 
TRANSPARENCY TO CUSTOMERS
Intesa Sanpaolo makes the information it provides to its customers clearer and more comprehensible in all 
stages of their relationship with the Bank through the simplicity of its language, transparent information, and 
the consistency of the various documents on the same products/services. The main offer documents, drawn up 
in line with the clarity and intelligibility requirements, can be found in branches and also on the Bank's website, 
under the Banking Transparency section [i]. These include Product and Service information sheets, Specific 
Guides and Information documents on the conditions offered to all type of customers.
INVESTMENTS: ADVISORY SERVICE
In terms of investments, Intesa Sanpaolo has offered its customers the highest possible form of protection, 
i.e. its consultancy service, since 2007. With regard to transactions relating to financial products or investment 
services, personalised recommendations are made consistent with the customer's financial profile. With this 
in mind, a series of specific rules that Bank personnel must observe was introduced and implemented in full. 
After the entry into force of the MiFID II Directive and European regulations in the area of investor protection1, 
these Rules were strengthened in order to provide investors with higher levels of protection and increased 
transparency in negotiations on the financial instruments markets. In particular, Intesa Sanpaolo introduced 
new obligations in terms of the governance of financial instruments, knowledge and expertise requirements 
for personnel responsible for providing investment services and ex ante and ex post information on the costs, 
charges and incentives of the products and services available.
Among the projects concerning advisory services, “Valore Insieme” is a global consultancy solution provided 
by branch managers through an innovative relations platform that provides advanced and personalised 
consultancy in all phases of the construction, protection and transfer of investment portfolios. It is a paid 
service aimed at those who are looking for an exclusive relationship that combines innovative technology with 
ongoing professional support from a dedicated manager.
THE COMPLIANCE CLEARING OF NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 
New products and services, like changes to existing ones, are subject to verification of compliance with 
applicable regulations. Similarly, innovative projects that launch new businesses or enter new markets are 
assessed in advance to ensure their substantial and formal compliance with internal and external regulations. 
Compliance assessments are carried out in accordance with the principles of fairness and protection of the 
interests of customers, and also relate to the quality of the information provided and the consistency of these 
services, products or transactions with the needs and characteristics of the target customers.
BUSINESS CONDUCT ADVISORY 
In 2019, the Business Conduct Advisory (BCA) function, created in 2018, continued its monitoring of the 
political and regulatory framework of the countries of the International Subsidiary Banks and advising on 
both the assessment of conduct risks related to the introduction of new products and on specific cases. 
A total of 50 opinions were provided, 17 of which related to ESG (Environment, Social & Governance) 
issues. To ensure a shared understanding of conduct risk, a BCA newsletter dedicated to the compliance 
and business functions of subsidiaries will be launched in 2020.
1 Directive 2014/65/EU (MiFID II) Regulation 2014/600/EU (MiFIR) and Regulation 2014/1286/EU (PRIIPs).
72