CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-2; 416-1; MARKETING AND LABELLING 103-2; 416-1; 417-1; 417-2; 417-3; EX FS15 Society
DIALOGUE WITH CONSUMER ASSOCIATIONS
As part of a long-established, open and constructive dialogue with the Consumer Associations at the national 
level, Intesa Sanpaolo signed the framework agreement called "Innoviamo le Relazioni" on 12 April 2019 
with all the National Council of Consumers and Users (Ministry of Economic Development). The agreement 
establishes the formation of six permanent round tables on the topics of greatest interest: Products and Services, 
Regulations and Authority, Education, Customer Care and Conciliation, Sustainability, Local Relations. Also 
during 2019, two round tables were held on Products and Services, and in particular on: Fondo Indennizzo 
Risparmiatori (Savers' Compensation Fund) (former Banche Venete), new directive on the definition of default, 
updated Mifid II reporting, clarity and transparency in customer communications, subsidised loan for university 
students "per Merito", Banca 5 - Sisal Pay agreement.
Intesa Sanpaolo is also a member of the Consumers' Forum, which in 2019 continued its commitment to 
Consumer Sustainability with the aim of building a fair and balanced market where consumer and business 
take on collective objectives. In this context, the association joined and participated in the Saturdays for future, 
an initiative on responsible consumption promoted by ASVIS.
Work also continued throughout the year on permanent conciliation (see the Conciliation Agreement at [i]) 
and its role as an out-of-court solution adopted and managed together with the Consumer Associations. The 
conciliation procedure, which concerns products offered to retail customers, is simple, free and quick, with 
a maximum case resolution time of 60 days. Customers may decide to participate, at no cost and without 
impacting on any other paths they may wish to take, even subsequently, in order to protect their interests. In 
2019, 16 applications for permanent conciliation were received.
RESALE OF DIAMONDS THROUGH PURCHASES AT ORIGINAL PRICES
The cooperation agreement with Diamond Private Investment (DPI) for the supply of diamonds to customers 
was terminated in November 2017 and the Bank ceased this activity. At the same time, Intesa Sanpaolo 
launched a process to pay customers the original cost incurred for the purchase of the diamonds, as well as 
the withdrawal of the stones. This has been done in order to satisfy the resale needs of customers unsatisfied 
by DPI due to the illiquidity that had arisen on the market. In order to further support customers, in January 
2018 the Bank sent a communication to its customers owning diamonds confirming its willingness to intervene 
directly to meet customers' selling needs. As at 31 December 2019, the Bank had satisfied the requests 
received from approximately 6,600 customers for a value of approximately 112 million euro.
In this context, in February 2019, an order for precautionary penal seizure of 11.1 million euro was served 
to the Bank, corresponding to the fee and commission income paid by DPI to Intesa Sanpaolo. In October 
2019, the Milan Public Prosecutor's Office served a notice of conclusion of the preliminary investigations in 
the criminal proceedings which, as far as Intesa Sanpaolo is concerned, involves two branch managers for 
alleged aggravated fraud and persons still to be identified both for the aforesaid allegations of fraud and self-
laundering. These investigations concern four other banks and two companies that sell diamonds involved in 
other alleged offences. Intesa Sanpaolo is accused of an administrative offence pursuant to Italian Legislative 
Decree 231/2001 in relation to the alleged offence of self-laundering. In this regard, the Bank is confident that 
the correctness of its actions will come to light, and that the aforementioned initiatives introduced to safeguard 
its customers from damage will be appreciated. For further information see page 490 of the consolidated 
financial statements [i].
CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY
In all its offices and branches the Intesa Sanpaolo Group protects the health and safety of all the people who 
work and pass through them by implementing operational rules and technological safety measures, supported 
by IT tools and the promotion of a health and safety culture.
PHYSICAL SAFETY
Physical safety is safeguarded by the relevant function of the Parent Company, which works directly in Italy 
and carries out a practical coordination role for the International Subsidiary Banks, each of which has its own 
safety function.
The robbery risk analysis is updated constantly and, with the improvement of the safety systems, an update 
is carried out to check the security level of high-risk sites. In 2019 in Italy there were 13 completed incidents 
and 9 attempted robberies, compared to 12 completed incidents in 2018 and 12 attempted robberies. The 
phenomenon remains limited and down 8% compared to 2018. Physical security risks are shifting towards 
threats that, unlike robberies, do not affect the health and safety of customers and employees, like attacks on 
ATMs (26 incidents in 2019, of which 7 were carried out and 19 attempted), mainly at night when branches 
are closed. Cyber physical security attacks are also on the rise and combine physical forms of breach with 
73