Society FS14
per semester. A maximum of 3,000 euro is provided for students that stay in their town or city of residence, 
and 5,000 euro is provided for those that live away from home to cover the length of the 3-year course, and 
for an additional two years for those also doing a Master’s degree. For studies abroad or master's degrees, 
the amounts can also be higher, up to a maximum of 50,000 euro for the duration of the studies. Two years 
after earning the degree, the repayment of what has been used will commence, with instalments up to a 
maximum of 30 years at a fixed rate defined at stipulation. Repayments can be suspended three times, and 
there are no additional charges for early repayment. The loan complements and strengthens the solutions 
offered by universities, scholarships or study grants without replacing the primary role of public institutions in 
guaranteeing the right to study, supporting students who have not met the requirements for the support provided 
by universities and thus contributing to fostering university enrolment, a prerequisite for the development of 
young people's human capital for the country's growth.
In all the "per Merito" initiative financed 3,240 new students in 2019, disbursing about 28 million euro.
NATURAL CATASTROPHES AND DISASTERS 
The Intesa Sanpaolo Group confirmed its concrete commitment to support the populations affected by the 
extraordinary events related to the bad weather that are increasingly affecting the Italian territory by providing 
new subsidised loans intended for the restoration of damaged properties (houses, shops, offices, artisan 
workshops, companies), suspensions on existing loans, actions in the area of protection and preferential, 
simplified and expedited procedures.
In 2019 there were about 1,900 suspensions of repayments on existing loans for a total residual debt of 800 
million euro. In addition, about 2,800 subsidised loans were disbursed for over 135 million euro in 2019 and 
about 335 million euro from 2018.
The Bank has made available a credit line of 4.5 million euro to families and businesses affected by the 
collapse of the Genoa bridge for the write-off of loans on properties declared uninhabitable (0.5 million euro 
written off) and 50 million for reconstruction (4.6 million granted); it has also provided for the subscription of the 
Vicino a Te policy for minors who lost one or both of their parents during the collapse.
This year, among other measures, the Group allocated a credit line of 100 million euro for families and 
businesses affected by the bad weather emergency in Venice and has provided for the possibility of requesting 
a 12-month suspension of mortgages.
Intesa Sanpaolo Bank Albania has confirmed its commitment to help the population affected by the earthquake 
of November 2019, with the Earthquake Relief and Support Plan. Thanks also to a dedicated survey, it 
intervened to assist affected customers, individuals and businesses by means of a suspension on current 
loans (suspension of the loan for up to 12 months, rescheduling of the instalment repayment plan) and loans 
at preferential conditions for damages or for restarting businesses, with very short approval times.
SUPPORT FOR HOUSEHOLDS
Intesa Sanpaolo participates in the Guarantee Fund for Main Home Purchases, established by the 2014 
Stability Law. Thanks to the Memorandum of Understanding between ABI and the Italian Ministry of the 
Economy and Finance, the beneficiaries – young couples, single-parent families with minor children, young 
people under the age of 35 with a temporary employment contract and tenants of public housing owned by the 
Istituto Autonomo Case Popolari (Social Housing Authority) – can get a guarantee on the principal amount of 
their loan (up to 50%).
In 2019, 6,144 mortgages of a value of 633 million euro were issued.
Support for households was also reflected in the renegotiation of mortgages, more than 63,000 in 2019, 
and more than 3,200 suspensions overall, defined as a result of system agreements and to provide support 
to households affected by natural disasters, noted above. Moreover, during 2019 initiatives were taken to 
suspend loan instalments (up to 12 months) for employees of companies in crisis situations and in some cases 
also due to related events (e.g. former Ilva of Taranto), which provided an immediate signal of support to the 
families of employees of the companies directly affected. Also to support retail customers, funding continued 
for APE (cash advances against pension entitlement) requests, a system introduced on a trial basis by the 
2017 Budget Act and extended to 2020 for workers who, having turned 63 and with a minimum of 20 years of 
contributions, wish to retire early. 
In 2019, 1,555 applications were received, bringing the total number to 9,264, and 1,327 were accepted, for a 
total of 6,769 since the start of the initiative, with a total of 66.7 million euro disbursed.
78