Society EXFS16
EDUCATION AND SPREAD OF FINANCIAL CULTURE
The demand for economic-financial education in Italy is constantly growing, a clear fact for the Savings 
Museum, which in 2019 continued its financial education projects and content aimed at informing and spreading 
awareness of financial services as well as avoiding the spread of over-indebtedness.
The lead project remains the SAVE Tour (Sustainability, Action, Voyage, Experience), a journey through the 
Italian regions in collaboration with Italscania and the European Investment Bank Institute, for students of 
all levels and age groups. The initiative, recognised by the Ministry of Education and Research, consists of 
multimedia courses and didactic workshops revolving around economic-financial education and environmental 
sustainability and held in a Discovery Truck set up with video and games stations (for more information [i]). 
The first edition of the SAVE tour of Italy took place from October 2018 to April 2019 and covered Central and 
Southern Italy, crossing eight Regions and engaging about 10,000 students. The second edition, launched in 
October 2019, will involve 21 cities through Calabria, Sicily and Sardinia, as well as Turin, Genoa and Naples.
The Savings Museum pays special attention to children and young people who, due to geographical and/or 
socio-economic barriers, benefit from fewer educational opportunities. In 2019 it carried out specific projects for 
this group, to which were added personalised financial education activities for groups of people in economically 
and socially fragile conditions:
Project Partner Entities Description Events and users involved
MOney  European Investment Bank  Primary school students located  The current 2019-2022 
LEarning and the Fondazione per la  in mountainous areas or more  edition is extended to 
Scuola della Compagnia di  than 80 km from Turin, transported  schools in the regions 
Sanpaolo by bus without any expense for  bordering Piedmont (Liguria, 
the families, have access to the  Lombardy, Valle d'Aosta), 
Savings Museum, which offers  located at a maximum 
them a free guided tour and an  distance of 200 km from 
educational workshop. Turin. The initiative engages 
about 2,000 children a year.
SKY IS THE  GLT Foundation Dedicated specifically to lower  The pilot phase started 
LIMIT secondary school students of  in 2019 for 100 students 
“outlying” schools, to train them  coming from schools 
to think of themselves as active  located in difficult 
builders of their professional future,  neighbourhoods of Turin
equipping them with planning skills 
and entrepreneurship.
Fuoriclasse  Ministry of Education  Financial and Business Education  The fourth edition involved 
della Scuola  and Research, Feduf,  Campus for winners of the student  78 secondary school 
project Confindustria and ABI School Olympics from all over Italy. students. 
Welcom-ED University of Turin Interactive modular course on  over 500 migrants
topics like saving, basic financial 
terminology, simple budgeting and 
planning techniques and operations 
of the most popular financial 
instruments. 
L.E.I. (Labour,  Compagnia di Sanpaolo,  Project for the reintegration of  On average 60 inmates are 
Emancipation,  Casa Circondariale di  women inmates into society, with a  involved in the training.
Inclusion) Torino (Turin prison) and its  special focus based on the informed 
cooperatives management of money and self-
employment.
80