102-10; 102-45; 102-49; 102-50; 102-51; 102-52
Methodology
The 2019 Consolidated Non-financial Statement - hereinafter also Statement - was drafted in accordance 
with Article 4 of Italian Legislative Decree 254/2016, the Comprehensive option of the GRI Standards 
defined in 2016 by the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and the “Financial Services Sector Supplements”. 
Consideration was also given to the recommendations issued in June 2017 by the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), adopted by Intesa Sanpaolo in October 2018, for the voluntary 
dissemination of transparent reporting on the risks and opportunities linked to climate change. Furthermore, 
the indicators provided for by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) were taken into 
account, where applicable.
MATERIALITY AND REPORTING PRINCIPLES
As required by Legislative Decree 254/2016, content was identified and chosen for this Statement in such a way 
as to clearly communicate the activities of the Group, its progress, its results and the impact of its activities, also 
in consideration of the GRI Standard principles of materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context 
and completeness. The materiality analysis (see page 28), conducted in compliance with the GRI Standards, 
made it possible to assess the topics based on their relevance in terms of their potential impact on both the 
Bank’s activities and the community and stakeholders. The GRI Standards principles were also applied to define 
the quality of information (balance/neutrality, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability) and the 
reporting boundary. Further details on the information provided in the Consolidated Non-financial Statement are 
published in the Sustainability section of the website [i]. Links to this additional information are included within the 
Statement, in the descriptions and in the GRI Content Index. In addition, as from this year, the GRI Content Index 
contains the alignment between the GRI indicators covered by this Statement and the related indicators provided 
for by the SASB, where deemed applicable.
The 2019 Consolidated Non-financial Statement was subject to a limited audit by KPMG S.p.A. The report 
describing the steps involved and related conclusions can be found on page 217.
THE REPORTING PROCESS
All company structures contribute to the drafting of the 2019 Consolidated Non-financial Statement and to 
dialogue activities with stakeholders through the CSR Delegates who, appointed by the various heads of Group 
areas and companies, work in close contact with the CSR structure. Data collection is centralised on the same 
reporting platform used for monitoring the economic, financial and commercial performances of the Business 
Units. The Statement’s reporting process was formalised with specific Guidelines and the related Process Guide, 
which establish the process, activities and roles and responsibilities of the Group structures and bodies involved 
in the drafting, approval and publication of the document. 
MEASUREMENT SYSTEMS
The indicators illustrated in the 2019 Consolidated Non-financial Statement were identified on the basis 
of the indications of the reference standards (GRI Standards), obligations deriving from Intesa Sanpaolo’s 
adoption of international sustainability protocols, and our commitment to ensuring that the process of 
achieving our improvement objectives is measurable. With the exception of certain estimates which are 
duly indicated, almost all of the data was acquired through accurate measurements. To ensure the accurate 
collection and consistent interpretation of the identified indicators, the data measurement systems are 
supported by a technical manual which establishes the relevance, calculation method and data source of 
quantitative indicators.
The data presented refers to the 2019 financial year and, where possible, is compared to the previous two 
years. Unless otherwise specified, re-statements concerning data published in previous years were not 
carried out.
REPORTING PERIOD AND BOUNDARY
The Statement is published on an annual basis, with the previous edition published in March 2019. In addition, in 
September 2019, for the first time and on a voluntary basis, Intesa Sanpaolo published a half-yearly Consolidated 
Non-financial Statement providing evidence of the most relevant indicators.
The reporting boundary of the Intesa Sanpaolo 2019 Consolidated Non-financial Statement covers 99.71% of the 
scope of the 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements as regards number of employees (net of employees with 
non-standard contracts), and therefore makes it possible to understand the activities of the Group, its progress, 
results and impacts.
In particular, compared to the previous edition, Eximbank was included in the reporting boundary, while the 
non-financial data of the Risanamento Group companies and Autostrade Lombarde S.p.A., for which the parent 
company Intesa Sanpaolo does not carry out management and coordination activities, remain excluded.
This edition of the Consolidated Non-financial Statement is also available on the website [i].
 
The Consolidated Non-financial Statement was prepared in accordance with current regulations and with 
particular reference to the areas outlined in Italian Legislative Decree 254/2016 in the social and environmental 
spheres that are applicable to the Group. 
9