EXFS16 Society
Among the most important events promoted and coordinated by the Savings Museum in 2019 are the following:
Project Partner Entities Description
Art of Saving Various realities of the Intesa  World Savings Day (31 October); 190 volunteer 
Sanpaolo Group, like International  staff and 15,000 students involved; the 
Subsidiary Banks Division,  International Subsidiary Banks Division joined 
Gallerie d'Italia and Historical  with 9 out of 11 subsidiaries.
Archives
Exhibition "Tommaso  CAMERA – Centro Italiano per la  A photographic and video account of the 
Bonaventura 100 MARKS -  Fotografia, Fondazione Museo  Begrüssungsgeld, the welcome money that the 
Berlin 2019" storico del Trentino, Centro  citizens of the former East Germany received 
Ricerca Archiviazione della  when they crossed the Berlin Wall between 1970 
Fotografia di Spilimbergo (CRAF) and 1989.
Convention "New Italians:  University of Turin Seminar addressed to CPIA teachers and 
information needs and  associations to reflect on opportunities for 
integration" - 24 January  economic and labour inclusion of migrants and 
2019 asylum seekers
EDUTAINMENT event.  Experiential and interactive event to take stock 
A winning combination of  of the tools and new frontiers of edutainment 
learning and fun – 23 May  applied to economic-financial education.
2019
Seminar "Educating  USR Piemonte and Fondazione  Seminar addressed to primary school teachers 
children and young people  Scuola della Compagnia di  and educators aimed at spreading new teaching 
about economic citizenship:  Sanpaolo approaches and evaluation methods in financial 
comparing experiences" -  education.
26 September 2019
Sky Is the Limit initiative.   Global Thinking Foundation Seminar for teachers and educators to promote 
Workshop on inclusive  good practices of inclusive and innovative 
education – 10 October  education
2019
Moreover, through a specific range of financial education and sustainability workshops, participation was 
confirmed in national events such as the International Book Fair, the Sustainable Finance Forum, World Investor 
Week and European Money Week. Finally, international networking activities were consolidated through the 
organisation, together with the International Federation of Finance Museums (IFFM), of the Financial Education 
Summit in Ottawa on 31 October, which brought together the main stakeholders working at a European and 
international level on the issues of financial inclusion and literacy.
The partnership with the Osservatorio Permanente Giovani-Editori for the Financial Culture at School project 
continued in 2019 with the aim of supporting young people's critical reading and the act of referring to quality 
information.
FINANCIAL EDUCATION TRAINING INITIATIVES WITH CONSUMERS
In 2019, the "Mettere in comune competenze" ("Skills pooling”) project offered two training courses for 
managers of Consumer Associations, one locally in Florence for associations in Tuscany, and one nationally in 
Rome. At the events, lasting 8 days for a total of 56 hours of training, 66 delegates from 15 different consumer 
associations belonging to the CNCU (National Council of Consumers and Users) were involved. The seminars 
dealt with finance, markets, credit, insurance products and regulatory areas.
81