Society
alongside the SME Guarantee Fund.
In addition, preparatory activities were launched in line with the SME Initiative, a dedicated SME initiative 
promoted by the European Union and the EIB Group (the European Investment Bank and the European 
Investment Fund) which aims to stimulate SME financing by providing partial risk coverage for SME loan 
portfolios by the original financial institutions.
The Bank is committed to providing more than 300 million euro in loans to SMEs.
SUPPORT FOR NEW BUSINESSES
In 2018, Intesa Sanpaolo joined the "Resto al Sud" initiative to support young people with new 
entrepreneurial businesses in the Southern Regions. The project, promoted by the Italian Ministry of the 
Economy, has access to 1.25 billion euro from the Development and Cohesion Fund.
The amount eligible for funding can be up to 50,000 euro per applicant, with a maximum of 200,000 
euro for projects with several applicants and maximum coverage by the Bank of 65% and the remaining 
35% by the public.
In 2019, regulatory changes were made that extended the range of beneficiaries to those under the age 
of 46 and to freelancers, resident or willing to move to the target regions of the initiative, and the benefits 
to the territories affected by the earthquakes of 2016-2017, thus including specific territories of Lazio, 
Marche and Umbria (regions to that point not included in the measure).
Intesa Sanpaolo was one of the first Banks to offer financing in response to the initiative, raising 
awareness about the project among thousands of young people at more than 70 regional meetings. 
Overall, 822 loans were disbursed for a total of 35.7 million euro in 2019.
"Finanziamento  Microcredito  Imprenditoriale"  ("Business  microcredit  financing")  supported  micro-
enterprises in launching a new business or investing in growth projects, offering them access to credit 
even without collateral. More details are available in the section Microfinance and the fight against usury.
In support of new entrepreneurship during 2019 a commercial offer was launched dedicated to New 
Entrepreneurs who received a VAT number no more than 12 months ago and to all innovative start-ups 
registered in the special section of the Company Register.
The offer includes a current account and associate cards with no fee for the first three years and a 
reduced fee for the following two years. Further benefits are also offered in the first three years for 
other products that can complete the offer at the customer's request, like Internet Banking, POS and 
Digifattura.
Finally, a new payment system was developed through an agreement with an Italian fintech start-up, 
Matipay, which allows purchasing services and products online with cash using the physical network of 
banknote readers and vending machine token holders, making it possible to reach non-bank customers 
like young people who do not yet have a credit card.
85