Society
Furthermore, as part of the activities in support of the acceleration programmes, the partnership continued 
with B-Heroes, an acceleration, mentorship, investment and communication programme aimed at innovative 
start-ups, which reached its third edition in 2019 with the involvement of over 1,000 start-ups and over 500 
meetings in the area.
For digital learning, the "Officine Formative" project provides online acceleration courses for early-stage start-
ups aimed at providing the necessary entrepreneurial skills, free of charge, to create and launch a start-up on 
the market and raise capital from investors. There are 21 courses on the site, with over 100 lessons on various 
topics. So far, over 1,750 hours of lessons have been provided on the website to over 3,900 registered users.
In order to support the growth of start-ups, international expansion programmes with assistance and consultancy 
services are also carried out to support the growth of start-ups abroad. Business development services were 
offered in the analysis of the potential target markets and competition’s characteristics, as well as identifying 
the most suitable business opportunities and technological solutions.
Intesa Sanpaolo Innovation Center has created a qualitative assessment model to support the Bank's credit 
granting process to innovative start-ups in the Company Register. The Diligence Assessment Tool Scorecard 
(DATS) associates traditional credit assessment based on economic and financial aspects with a long-term 
vision that harnesses the growth potential of start-ups.
OPEN INNOVATION 
In collaboration with the Intesa Sanpaolo Innovation Center, Intesa Sanpaolo manages the Tech-Marketplace, 
the digital platform that promotes interactions between start-ups and small/medium-sized enterprises, with 
approximately 6,000 businesses representing the demand for innovation and more than 11,000 technology 
supplier profiles.
Working with research institutes and universities, Intesa Sanpaolo Innovation Center creates laboratories for 
applied research projects that generate know-how in the academic world, the Group and corporate customers. 
One of the projects involves Artificial Intelligence in partnership with the ISI Fondazione of Turin to design, 
develop and test mathematical models and algorithms as part of applied cutting-edge research on issues of 
interest to the Group and/or customers. In particular, in 2019 5 challenges were concluded, and for 3 of them 
the research results were brought into production. Furthermore, 6 challenges are still ongoing.
As regards the protection and development of intellectual property, two patent applications have been filed 
and two scientific publications and a position paper have been produced. Regarding the dissemination of 
knowledge, 6 seminars were organised on topics related to the application frontier in the industrial field of 
artificial intelligence and over 40 events in humanoid robotics. The Lab Neuroscience, launched in partnership 
with IMT School for Advanced Studies of Lucca with the aim of designing, developing and testing the field of 
neuroscience with respect to business issues, in 2019 concluded 6 challenges. As far as the protection and 
development of intellectual property is concerned, 4 scientific papers are being prepared and a neuroscientific 
publication has been chosen, conducted at the Pontifical Academy of Rome and presented at the RoboEtica 
event. With regard to the dissemination of knowledge, 3 events have been organised with Banca IMI and more 
than 10 workshops.
The Group provides many loans for businesses that invest in innovation and research, most notably Nova+, 
a loan issued on the basis of technical and industrial assessments of the innovation and research project 
conducted by a team of engineers specialising in the technology sector, which in 2019 funded 41 projects for 
about 42 million euro. A total of 335 projects (Nova+) were funded in the period 2014-2019 for about 370 million 
euro.
The Innovfin guarantee, issued by the European Investment Fund (EIF) with the financial support of the 
European Union, aims to facilitate access to credit for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Small MidCaps. 
In 2019, 38 loans were disbursed for approximately 58 million euro.
Furthermore, as a bank granting specific public subsidies for research and innovation (in particular, the 
Sustainable Growth Fund, managed by the Ministry of Economic Development), in 2019 Intesa Sanpaolo 
approved 41 projects for about 106 million euro of investments in 88 beneficiaries (of which 55 SMEs). In total, 
240 projects were approved under the Sustainable Growth Fund from 2014 to 2019, for a total of about 1.2 
billion euro of investments in 394 beneficiaries (of which 222 SMEs).
87