Society
organisations UNPRI and IIGCC – Institutional Investor Group on Climate Change – are active participants of, 
involving more than 370 investors with resources under management for about 35 thousand billion dollars. The 
project subjects 161 companies – with a total capitalisation of over 8 thousand billion dollars, identified as responsible 
for industrial emissions of more than two thirds of greenhouse gases – to climate change engagement: the objective 
is to induce these companies to adopt a strong active climate change governance, to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions in line with the Paris Agreement and to increase transparency in reporting. 
SUSTAINABLE INSURANCE
Following an analysis of its positioning and performance in the sustainability area, the Insurance Division has 
started a process to integrate ESG factors in decision-making and strategic choices with an ESG Strategic 
Plan that provides for a strengthening of investments also from a governance and monitoring point of view by 
defining the areas of intervention having the greatest impact. The integration of ESG issues in the insurance 
business has a number of benefits, not only in terms of reputation and added value generated, but also in 
terms of a better understanding of risks and opportunities, ensuring a holistic view of the context. 
The Plan and the initiatives to be implemented in the short and medium-long term have also been defined in 
line with PSI (Principles for Sustainable Insurance), signed in December 2019 by Intesa Sanpaolo Vita as the 
insurance parent company. Developed by UNEP FI in 2012, the Principles represent a framework for the global 
insurance industry to address environmental, social and governance risks and opportunities. In particular, 
the insurance companies participating in this global initiative are committed to concrete actions involving the 
integration of ESG issues into operational and commercial management and the development of new types of 
products and services. The adherence to the PSI, promoted by the United Nations, has established a path of 
involvement of delegated managers in the reinterpretation of mandates according to ESG criteria and in the 
analysis of the managed portfolio.  
THE RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT OF INVESTMENTS
With regard to investment management, the Insurance Group relies on two different delegated managers: 
Eurizon Capital is the delegated manager of Intesa Sanpaolo Vita (parent company of the Insurance Division), 
a long-standing signatory of the Principles for Responsible Investments, while Fideuram Vita manages its 
investment products through Fideuram Asset Management.
CUSTOMER FOCUS AND INNOVATION  
In an ever-changing market, the ability to exploit innovation remains crucial to address some elements of 
significant change. In this sense the Insurance Group continues to invest in Innovation and Digital, bringing 
new solutions to the market with an approach that puts the focus on the needs of the Customer (internal and 
external). In 2018, an intensive Digital Transformation programme for the Non-Life business was launched, 
completely transforming Intesa Sanpaolo Assicura's interface with the development of a dedicated digital 
platform. The project primarily involves the new product XME Protezione and exploits new technologies to 
ensure greater commercial effectiveness and excellence in the services provided to customers. In line with 
the experience in Non-Life, in 2019 a digital transformation programme was launched in the Life business 
with the aim of maximising the digital customer experience by leveraging innovation to add new services and 
functionalities, developing new touchpoints and reviewing existing ones. The project has a three-year plan that 
involves all the channels and digital touchpoints of the Insurance Group's life insurance companies.
To meet the needs of a younger, digitally native customer base, a digital platform for the sale of on-demand 
policies was launched during 2019 thanks to the collaboration with the insurtech start-up Yolo. 
With a continued focus on customer care and satisfaction with the services provided, in 2019 the One Voice 
project was developed to train the more than 200 operators of the 5 Intesa Sanpaolo Vita e Assicura call centre 
and customer care service providers.
As part of its programmes to disseminate insurance culture and skills, the Insurance Group is launching a 
Level II Master’s degree in Insurance Innovation in collaboration with the University of Turin, Turin Polytechnic 
(POLITO) and Collegio Carlo Alberto. The Master’s degree is for recent graduates and people with experience 
in the insurance sector interested in expanding their knowledge of digital and innovative issues in the insurance 
sector and will consist of fundamental and specialised modules. The first edition will be proposed starting in 
the fall of 2020.
INSURANCE INCLUSION AND VALUE FOR THE LOCAL COMMUNITY
The Italian insurance market is distinguished by a low level of insurance culture in terms of the perception of 
the value of insurance protection. In fact, the incidence of insurance premiums on Italian GDP is about half that 
of the EU average, and only 20% of homeowners have insurance protection for their homes.
Yet 56% of Italians say that they do not feel protected in case of job loss and 40% do not feel that the possibility 
93