TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE VALUE CHAIN 
Remuneration policy in Brazil 
 
As for the Italian remuneration policy, Brazil is also divided in four major groups: fixed remuneration, short-term variable 
remuneration, long-term variable remuneration and benefit and welfare. The remuneration policy has some points in 
common with that of Brazil. 
 
The fixed component takes into account the breadth and strategic nature of the position held and is dictated by 
performance in the reference markets. Periodically, internal and external comparisons are made to ensure market 
competitiveness about compensation. 
In addition to changes in fixed remuneration, during salary reviews, other variable compensation instruments (bonus / 
salary increases) can be put in place to reward / recognize outstanding performances. 
The short-term variable remuneration (MBO) on the other hand aims to establish a transparent link between pay and the 
degree of fulfilment of annual targets. To this end, the targets were set according to quantitative indicators that represent 
and are consistent with the strategic priorities and the business plan, measured according to pre-established criteria and 
objectives.  
 
As usual, the MBO 2019 system provides for a “gate” objective, composed of the EBITDA indicator as a condition of access 
to the bonus, applied indiscriminately to all participants in the plan. 
There are corporate, departmental, and functional goals in the MBO. For 2019, the functional and departmental weighting 
were reduced to give greater importance to corporate targets. 
As objectives linked directly to business sustainability we can mention two main ones: “Satisfaction Survey”, attributed 
to 98% of the company's executives and the Digital Transformation, attributed to almost 90% of the participants. 
The accrued bonus is fully liquidated, in cash form, when the results achieved are confirmed. 
Long-term variable remuneration is aimed at promoting consistency between the interests of management and those 
of shareholders, through sharing of the business risk. 
On April 19, 2019, the Board of Directors approved the 2018-2020 LTI Plan, Performance Share plan, with a three-year 
vesting period, and a 12-year lock-up. This Plan is reserved to the Chief Executive Officer and owners of managerial 
positions with a major impact on company results. The Plan is subject to the achievement of the performance condition 
linked to the increase in both the share value and economic and financial indicators. 
The benefits and welfare constitute the non-monetary element of remuneration. The Company also confirmed a 
substantial investment in terms of dedicated economic resources for 2020, too. 
In particular: 
•  benefits are assets made available to beneficiaries, depending on their role and are aimed at improving their well-
being; these services generate an economic value separate from both fixed salary and other forms of variable 
remuneration; 
•  welfare is the package of non-monetary services available to the entire corporate population regardless of role, aimed 
at increasing individual and family well-being of all employees.  
Company car, extra day off based on years worked or on birthdays, cell phone plan, gym incentive program, health care 
plan and retirement plan are examples of benefits and welfare. The company also has a flexible scheme that enable the 
management level decides their own mix of benefits. These can be balanced, picking from a menu of options that 
“upgrade” or “downgrade” the default benefits, using a flex fund that represents a percentage of their salary.  
The focus of benefits strategy balance innovation, market tendency, employee’s needs and smart cost that comes with 
tax and administrative incentives, partnerships or using the company's own business platforms. 
   
                                                                 
1 Vesting period is the period that separates the time of the Plan assignment from that of the Performance Shares accrual, corresponding 
to the years 2018, 2019 and 2020. 
102 
 