TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE VALUE CHAIN 
Working time management 
[GRI 103-3: Management Approach] [GRI 407] The second pillar of TIM’s welfare initiative, which revolved around Flexible 
Work, which, under a Level II contractual agreement signed on July 18, 2019 with the trade unions, has gone from the 
experimental phase to a permanent project that allows people to work from home or satellite offices closer to home. 
Over 23,500 employees' jobs are compatible with the Flexible Work method and they therefore constitute the pool of 
qualified persons. At 31.12.2019 about 17,000 people had joined the project.  
Between the conclusion of the experimental mode and the activation of the structural one, a total of about 300,000 days 
were used (68% from home) with the availability of 230 satellite sites in 161 municipalities throughout the country, for a 
total of 30,768 places available every month. Taking into account travel avoided, over 250,000 hours of commuting were 
saved (with a corresponding quality of life improvement), amounting to over 8 million kilometers and about 1,300 tons of 
CO2 avoided.  
Another important area of action is Mobility Management, whereby TIM helps people travel from home to work and back 
through its network of 10 mobility managers, company shuttle buses (253 trips per day to 15 company offices in five 
cities), car sharing and bicycle racks at company offices.  
In Brazil the company maintained the Flex Office Program, offering employees the opportunity to balance their personal 
and professional life, by taking advantage of all the mobility the telecommunications technology has to offer. According 
to this program and based on guidelines set out in a specific policy, employees working at the headquarters are allowed 
to work remotely, from anywhere with internet access, with the same commitment they would have undertaken when 
working on company premises, while enjoying extra quality of life and productivity in their projects and activities. 
Inclusion Management 
[GRI 103-2: Management Approach] [GRI 405] [GRI 406] [GRI 103-3: Management Approach] [GRI 405] [GRI 406] [GRI 405] 
TIM's diversity & inclusion management programme aims to implement a concrete, sustainable and long-term vision for 
the company, guaranteeing equal opportunities and full respect for diversity for all the TIM Group's more than 50,000 
people. At the heart of this programme is the awareness, gained from external and internal analysis, that an inclusive 
environment in which everyone can express their potential and uniqueness to the full is the cornerstone of people's 
performance and company growth.  
The Engagement Survey carried out in May 2019 showed that inclusion is the second top driver for getting people 
engaged. Inclusion also plays a key role in knowing how to innovate the products and services offered; anticipating market 
needs actually means going beyond the limits often generated by work routines and habits to look at the activities, 
processes and people from a unique point of view.  
In 2019, TIM was once again in the Top 100 of the Refinitiv Diversity and Inclusion Index, the most respected world ranking 
for the criterion, at 6th, making it the highest Italian company and highest telecoms company in the world. TIM’s place in 
the Refinitiv Diversity and Inclusion Index confirms the Group’s commitment to equal opportunities, non-discrimination 
and inclusion as the basis of its company strategy to improve internal expertise, organizational well-being and therefore 
company performance. 
Mel 2019 TIM was also in the Top 20 of the Diversity Brand Index which lists the brands seen as the most inclusive. 
The 2019 engagement survey gave the average satisfaction value of TIM people, on a scale from 1 to 5, as 3.71.  
The main areas of development for TIM’s Inclusion Management are: 
• Cultural diffusion and awareness: TIM Inclusion Week and the annual calendar of inclusion events "TIM Inclusion
Time", launched in 2019 to ensure continuous promotion of inclusion issues (in 2019 over 200 events were held to
spread the culture of inclusion), courses on human rights, inclusion in general and disability management; launch of
the #TIM4inclusion community; the social network campaign #TIM4inclusion (especially the video series "THE sign
of..." which presents 5 stories of inclusion got; a specific reference to the issues of inclusion in the key organizational
identity documents: code of ethics, human rights policy, charter of values, leadership model.
1 The percentage of fully satisfied employees (4 + 5) was 56%.
111 