TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE VALUE CHAIN 
• Disability management: at TIM, there are 1,684 employees with disabilities, accounting for around 3% of the 
workforce. The following have been made available for these employees to have a positive work day:
• the policy of automatic workstation adaptation;
• solutions to improve communication between deaf and hearing employees1;
• the activities of the Working Capital accelerators that assist several disability project start-ups;
• support for employees’ children with disabilities during TIM Summer camps.
• Gender: TIM is working in partnership with Valore D2, both as a supporting member and as a member of the Board of 
Directors. Because of this, more than 100 employees a year have the opportunity to attend skill-building courses, 
mentoring and coaching programs, as well as courses and workshops on welfare and work-life balance3; In addition, 
during 2019, the "Women's Project" was launched.
• Age management: in Italy, more than half of the Group’s people were born between 1960 and 1980. This figure 
increases in the area of caring services alone. TIM has therefore launched an important age management programme 
that includes a portfolio of activities: from the cross-generational “masters of the trade” meetings, to mentoring, to 
the redesign of models of development, training and rewards.
• Sexual orientation and gender identity: thanks to the partnership with PARKS, Liberi e Uguali, of which TIM is a 
founding member and Board member, we have implemented TIM’s definition of “family”, which extends all benefits 
granted to its employees (car, healthcare, supplementary insurance) to all cohabiting partners, regardless of sex, and 
grants the opportunity to access the company’s many care services (crèches, summer stays, study stays) to the 
registered family of the employee regardless of the blood bond, and therefore also to homosexual families and their 
children); in 2019 TIM was also a sponsor of Roma Pride and Milano Pride, with the participation of a large group of 
employees and family members.
• Employee volunteering initiatives: these are an integral part of TIM’s inclusion management programme, since they 
promote coming together and improving listening and comprehension skills and, indeed, inclusion.
The main voluntary activities include:
− 1,731 Group employees have renewed their commitment to helping CIAI4, the Community of Sant’Egidio and Save 
the Children, giving their support to remote adoption of children, with a total contribution of around 180,000 euros;
− 51 blood donation days were organized (around 10,000 blood donations a year);
− over 700 employees signed up to take part in “Race for the Cure” organized by the Susan Komen Foundation for 
breast cancer research;
− at 15 company locations, 64 solidarity stalls were hosted by charities.5
[GRI 103-2: Management Approach] [GRI 405] 
TIM Brasil reinforced its commitment in people engagement, people caring, and diversity and inclusion management as 
fundamental pillars of its HR practices. 
In 2019, around 9,042 employees took part to Corporate Climate Survey6, corresponding to 96% of the whole workforce. 
To encourage general involvement, in October 2019 employees and their families participated in the "TIM Abre as Portas" 
initiative, during which TIM opened its doors to approximately 3,200 children (the sons and daughters of employees aged 
between 3 and 12 years). The children who visited the offices, getting to know the environment in which their parents 
work and participating in recreational and innovative activities.  
Considering diversity as a reflection of society and, consequently, of the labour market, TIM Brasil continued implementing 
a culture of respect and appreciation of differences, trusting the fact that the more diverse a group is, the greater is the 
exchange of experiences and solutions, which helps build a healthy work environment and a competitive advantage in 
the market. 
1 TIM offers the LIS interpreting service in the key moments of interaction between manager and employee, subtitles in main communications on 
the Intranet, specific e-mail inboxes, as well as free video calling services and an integrated communication platform developed internally, which 
can be used both from smartphones and desktop computers.
2 www.valored.it 
3 TIM has also joined the Women’s Employment Manifesto, a document whereby it is committed to 9 areas of activity. 
4 Italian Center for Childhood Aid. 
5  Charity events promoted by employees for non-profit organizations.
6For more details, see The Commitment to our people section of this chapter.
112 