TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE VALUE CHAIN 
Therefore, in July 2019, the People Caring and Inclusion Management unit – within Human Resources and Organization 
area has been created with mission to build and manage policies, programs and structured initiatives of diversity and 
inclusion, aligned with the strategy and organization culture and the principles of inclusion and appreciation of the 
contribution of each employee.  
A new plan has then been structured and focused on 5 categories of diversity & inclusion and related commitments: 
•  Gender: acting on gender parity, ensuring equity of opportunity in the employee's journey at TIM (hiring, on boarding, 
training and career development); 
•  Sexual orientation and gender identity: Promote an inclusive work environment, combating all forms of discrimination 
and prejudice; 
•  Ethnicity: Acting on ethnicity and race equity, ensuring equity of opportunity in the employee's journey at TIM (hiring, 
on boarding, training and career development). 
•  Generation: Valuing generational diversity by bringing people of all ages together in a context of mutual exchange 
and learning. 
•  People with disabilities (PWD): Increase actions to bring in, develop and retain people with disabilities in the company, 
breaking cultural and physical barriers to ensure equal opportunities for them. 
 
TIM continued rolling out the already existing PWD program, based on enabling PWD people to join the Company also 
through special career opportunities. TIM Brasil also implemented several actions to make its facilities and furniture 
accessible to these employees, ensuring quick adaptation to the internal environment, in addition to conducting 
awareness activities with managers and teams. 
By doing these actions, TIM Brasil was able to increase the number of people with disabilities hired. As a consequence, 
the company improved its percentage of compliance with the hiring quota established by the Conduct Adjustment 
Agreement (TAC, acronym in Portuguese), signed with the Brazilian Public Prosecutor’s Office (Law No. 8213/91), going 
from 28% in 2016 to 40% in October 2019.  
Throughout 2019, the Company also reinforced the commitment and positioning of diversity and inclusion in TIM Brasil 
through some actions such as Mother’s, Father’s Day and International Women’s Day campaign with approach focused 
on diversity & inclusion, free of gender stereotype. 
The TIM Talks, a week of development dedicated to all employees, offered workshops and lectures across the country, 
especially on diversity & inclusion. Eight events were focused on diversity & inclusion themes, with participation of speaker 
of the LGBT Community, over 60s and people with disabilities. The program also offered dedicated content for employees' 
children, with lectures and workshops on careers, social networking and business.  
 
Other initiatives for employees  
[GRI 201-3] To promote employee personal and family well-being through enhanced investments, TIM has put in place a 
company loan scheme for predefined reasons for all Group personnel.  
To support preventative staff health care, TIM provides all those who are 45 years of age or older, the chance to join a 
flexible and personalised health prevention programme every two years. 
   
113 
 