TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE VALUE CHAIN 
ASSILT (supplementary healthcare association for the employees of TIM Group companies), funded by the Group 
companies, by employee members and retired members, is a non-profit-making organisation providing services to its 
members and beneficiaries that are supplementary to those provided by the Italian national health service, including -
together with public healthcare establishments -collective and individual research, knowledge-gathering initiatives and 
health prevention activities, and the promotion of health education initiatives to protect the health and physical well-
being of its members. In 2019, the Association issued refunds totaling approximately 52 million euros.As of December 31, 
2019, the Association had 168,000 members, including about 89,000 employees and family members and 79,000 
pensioners. 
ASSIDA provides senior management staff with refunds for the cost of supplementary health services to those provided 
by the Italian national health service. At December 31, 2019, the Association had 1,581 beneficiaries and 527 registered 
managers and had disbursed approximately 1,500,000 euro. 
TELEMACO is the national complementary pension fund for employees in the telecommunications industry, established 
in 1998 as a non-profit association and operative since October 2000; its objective is to ensure that those subscribing are 
able to maintain their standard of living when retiring, thanks to the creation of supplementary social security, over and 
above the public provisions. It is intended for workers, office staff and middle managers of companies that apply the 
national telecommunications contract, for employees on permanent, apprenticeship or placement contracts and for 
people who are physically supported by the workers subscribing to the Fund. As of January 1, 2020, there were 33,376 
employees subscribed to Telemaco, from 9 associated companies with active members. 
[GRI 401-2] All Group workers, whether full or part-time, on permanent or fixed-term contracts, enjoy the same benefits, 
whilst, in Italy, the supplementary welfare institute is extended to workers on apprenticeship or placement contracts, as 
well as to employees on permanent contracts. 
CRALT is the recreational club for employees of the TIM Group which organises sight-seeing, sports, cultural and 
recreational activities for its members, employees, pensioners and their families. By entering into specific agreements, 
CRALT also allows members and their families to purchase goods and services at particularly good prices, which can also 
be settled in instalments. One of the most significant of these is the agreement and the resulting contribution provided 
for the purchase of school and university books for the children of members, as a valuable contribution to household 
purchasing power.  
At December 31, 2019, there were about 40,000 members, of which about were 35,000 employees and about 5,000 
retirees.  
   
114 
 