TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE VALUE CHAIN 
[GRI 102-43] [GRI 102-44] Involvement of call center operators 
In 2019, the activities involving call center operators have progressed along the path structured in previous years related 
to focusing on improving basic knowledge and the process of providing information/training through the TUO portal 
(acronym for Trova, Usa and Organizza – Find, Use and Organise).  
Specifically, the most relevant actions focused on:  
•  the organisation of ad hoc courses for interested employees using virtual classrooms; 
•  the implementation of surveys to verify learning, on a monthly basis or based on particular needs, with possible 
training recovery interventions focused on the most critical issues; 
•  the dissemination of information with the most relevant news through fixed and mobile consumer newsletters; 
•  the publication of fact sheets and dynamic tables on the most important topics;  
•  the increase of information sent by email to customers, in support of contact with them. 
Moreover, as an absolute novelty in 2019, a weekly gamification on the consolidated knowledge base structure has been 
implemented for agents, with the aim of making information refreshers more effective through playful dynamics, while 
avoiding boring and repetitive actions and the consequent cognitive overload.1  
 
 
Self-service area  
In the course of 2018, TIM has introduced actions to raise awareness and encourage the wider use of the MyTIM private 
area of the tim.it website, which through registration allows some types of requests to be forwarded in a simple and 
direct way (subject of further development). 
This allows customers to avoid having to make written requests, leading to economic and time savings, and to monitor 
the progress of the issue. Some types of requests, such as direct debits, can be immediately carried out through automatic 
processing.  
 
PEDIUS - Managing calls for the hearing impaired 
Also in 2019, in addition to the new whatsapp channel, customers who are deaf could use the PEDIUS service, which 
allows access to TIM’s call centers, in addition to the usual channels. The trial phase was launched in September 2014: 
•  is available to all customers on app stores (both Apple and Android);  
•  aims to ensure that inbound contact is accessible to hearing-impaired customers through an app that allows normal 
calls to be made using voice synthesis and recognition technology.  
 
 
[GRI 103-2: Management Approach] [GRI 102-44] Customer Satisfaction in incentive systems  
TIM’s managerial (Management by Objectives) and collective (performance bonus) incentive systems include objectives 
associated with customer satisfaction indicators in keeping with the business plan for the current period. The targets are 
made up of several aspects corresponding to different market segments. Further details are available in the "TIM People" 
paragraph of this report. 
   
                                                                 
It1 consists of applying typical elements of gaming (e.g. scoring, competition with others, game rules) to other areas of activity, generally as an 
online marketing technique to encourage involvement with a product or service. 
125 
 