TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE VALUE CHAIN 
Conciliation procedures  
[GRI 103-1: Management Approach] [GRI 102-43] [GRI 102-44] The 2019 materiality analysis highlighted the Group’s 
relationship with its customers as a material topic. 
[GRI 103-2: Management Approach] [GRI 102-43] [GRI 102-44] The conciliation procedure between TIM and the consumer 
protection associations who signed the framework agreement for the out-of-court settlement of telephone disputes, was 
the first example of joint conciliation in Italy (operational in 1993 throughout the national territory). In 2011, the European 
Parliament recognized “Italian joint conciliation” as an example of best practice based on the protocol signed by the 
Company and Consumer Associations, where the Company undertakes to use an alternative procedure to resolve 
disputes that may arise between company and consumer, known as “Alternative Disputes Resolution” (ADR). In December 
2019, 22 consumer associations signed up to the conciliation agreement, 19 of which registered with the CNCU (National 
Council of Consumers and Users), an organisation representing consumer associations - chaired by the Italian Ministry of 
Economic Development - with the task of contributing to improving and strengthening consumer satisfaction levels.  
In 2016, on entry into force of Legislative Decree No.130/2015, implementing European Directive No. 2013/11/EU, the 
Italian legislator made an important choice by counting “joint conciliations” in ADR procedures, completely reforming the 
original Art. 141 of the Consumer Code. By virtue of this new European and national regulatory framework, the TIM-
Consumer Association Joint Conciliation Procedure was: 
•  recognized as an “ADR Body” possessing the requisites of stability, efficiency and impartiality required by the 
regulatory framework; 
•  registered on the list of recognized ADR Bodies, established by the AGCom (Italian Communications Authority) on 
June 30, 2017.  
The basis for the dissemination and success of the conciliation procedure is: 
•  it is a free model; 
•  speed of the process; 
•  the mandatory requirement to seek recourse to conciliation as a prerequisite for judicial requests to proceed. 
Undoubtedly, conciliation is successful also thanks to the good relationships built up and maintained over the years with 
consumer associations which, as stakeholders of the Company, have always provided a wealth of useful information on 
critical consumer issues to the company through their contributions.  
 
Following the establishment of the ADR Body, there was a revision of the Joint Conciliation Regulation and the application 
methods of the unitary conciliation protocol established between TIM and the Consumer Associations registered at the 
CNCU. The protocol is considered unitary because it serves as a common basis for other telecom operators (Vodafone, 
WindTre, Fastweb). It includes procedures and guidelines to be applied in order to guarantee a comprehensive 
harmonization for end consumers. The ADR Body, established in compliance with the provisions of Art. 141 ter of the 
Consumer Code, is established at the TIM headquarters.  
 
A new collaboration agreement (already partly presented in December 2019) with some of the main Associations – those 
who are most collaborative, involved and engaged in debates on electronic communication – will be launched by 2020, 
with the aim of more effectively combining the interests of the company with the needs of consumers. In this respect, 
thanks to this agreement great emphasis will be placed on strengthening the dialog concerning the most sensitive issues 
for the consumer, such as the new 5G technology. In addition, and again with the aim of best consolidating the agreement 
between the Associations and the Operator, the introduction of a new channel for handling consumers’ complaints 
addressed to TIM and submitted to the Consumer Associations has been guaranteed. 
 
Since 2009, in compliance with the voluntary undertakings given and approved by the AGCom in 2008, TIM has also been 
managing conciliation requests at Co.Re.Com (Regional Communication Committees) and Chamber of Commerce offices 
(until June 2018), replicating the organizational model successfully applied for joint conciliations. In this way, customers 
can choose to use the consumer associations or take advantage of alternative paths through Co.Re.Com to settle any 
disputes with the Company out of court. 
 
In light of Resolution 203/18/CONS "Approval of the regulation on dispute resolution procedures between users and 
operators of electronic communications", from July 2018 AGCom has introduced the new conciliation management 
126 
 