TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE VALUE CHAIN 
departments of 23 Brazilian state capitals; in 2019, the objective was to extend it to the main cities in the country’s interior 
with a consumer protection office within the Public Defence department. 
In 2018, the Users' Council begun dissemination activities through which retail sellers - after introducing the TIM 
Participações service channels - started teaching customers how to download the Consumidor.Gov.br application on their 
smartphones. this activity has already been implemented in six states and in 2020 the objective is to roll it out in six other 
states; In addition, training courses for PROCONS employees and Public Defenders, about TIM Participações services 
(invoicing, credit top-up, plans) were held to reduce the number of complaints. In particular, in the north-eastern region, 
PROCONS employees have begun to promote TIM Participações' Meu TIM application. 
In 2018 the National Forum of Users’ Councils was held, too, during which the ANATEL “Letter of Brazil” was established: 
42 proposals were put forward by the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Users’ Councils of telecommunications 
companies which they undertook to observe. After replying to the proposals, TIM Participações received positive feedback 
about them from ANATEL, which commented that: 
•  TIM Participações' participation in the majority of the proposals was expected, highlighting that “TIM’s Users’ Council 
is differentiated and fully functional”; 
•  TIM Participações was the company that registered the highest percentage of participation in the proposals (90.48%).  
 
With regard to accessibility, in 2019 TIM continued to disseminate the Consumer Protection Code in Braille and Libras 
(Brazilian sign language) through the Users' Council website and Council meetings. The Users' Council also launched the 
information guide for users of digital and Braille telecommunications services and promoted the installation of the Giulia 
application, which provides accessibility for people who are deaf and is considered a social action by both consumer 
protection agencies and other public agencies related to the sector. 
 
[GRI 103-3: Management Approach] [GRI 102 -43] [GRI 102-44] In 2019, too, TIM achieved excellent results in settling 
claims submitted by PROCON offices: CIPs (Preliminary Investigation Letters) 79%; 76% were justified  complaints (source: 
SENACON official report). 
 
 
 
Certifications 
 
[GRI 102-12] For the areas of the Company which have a significant impact on the various stakeholders because of the 
products and services they offer, the Group has obtained and/or confirmed certifications that ensure that procedures and 
conduct are in line with the stakeholders’ expectations.  
The certifications achieved and/or confirmed at December 31, 2019 related to some of the Group's activities and/or 
companies: 
 
•  quality of products and services offered: UNI EN ISO 9001 standard;  
•  environmental protection: UNI EN ISO 14001 standard; 
•  general requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories: ISO/IEC 17025 standard; 
•  health and safety at work: BS OHSAS 18001 standard; 
•  Information Technology services: ISO/IEC 20000-1 standard; 
•  information security: ISO/IEC 27001 standard; 
•  information security risk management1: ISO/IEC 27005; 
•  management system for the prevention of active and passive bribery (ISO 37001); 
•  efficient energy management: standard ISO 50001; 
•  the ability of a data center to guarantee continuity of the services provided: ANSI/TIA regulation 2-942; 
•  security for credit and debit card transactions and cardholders protection from improper use of personal information: 
PCI/DSS standard3; 
                                                                 
1 Supporting the information security management system requirements (ISMS) according to ISO/IEC 27001. 
2 American National Standards Institute/ Telecommunications Industry Association. 
3 Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard. 
128 
 