TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE GROUP 
•  health: predictive and personalized medicine 
  
TIM is operating in a “gigabit society”, characterized by increasingly numerous and complex services that represent an 
opportunity for growth for the TLC industry, which already contributes over 90 billion euros (or 5%) to Italy's GDP, 
1including through direct and indirect effects and productivity. 
The GSMA 2019 report "The Mobile Economy" confirms that the expected contribution to European GDP from the use of 
5G technologies in the economy is estimated at 4.6%, rising over the next five years to 4.8%. 
The Company will continue to focus on digital innovation as a key way to promote a greater diffusion of demand for 
innovative services and for the continuous improvement of its network, which with over 17 million km of fiber laid is the 
most advanced and dynamic telecommunications infrastructure in the country. It provides ultrabroadband coverage to 
80% of homes on fixed networks and over 99% of the population on 4G mobile networks. 
In addition, TIM is leading the 5G technological innovation and, in this role, the Company was awarded the best 
frequencies put out to tender by Ministry for Economic Development (MiSE).  
By 2021, 120 cities, 200 tourist destinations, 245 industrial districts and 200 specific projects for large enterprises will be 
covered. Many municipalities will be able to make use of 5G, including superfast connections through FWA (fixed wireless 
access2). 
At the same time, the Group is committed to promoting the widest possible distribution of digital technologies and skills 
with full integration across the country and in its social and economic-productive fabric. Digital solutions for public 
administration services, cloud services for business, digital platforms for schools and hospitals, applications for people 
with disabilities are just a few examples. 
In this context, TIM's “Operation Digital Risorgimento”, a large digital education project for Italy, was launched. The Project 
involves more than 400 trainers who will develop a program lasting 20,000 hours in all 107 Italian provinces. It will be 
aimed at a wide audience of people3 with the aim of boosting the process of digitizing the country, encouraging the 
adoption of new technologies by an increasingly large pool of citizens. The initiative has obtained the support of the 
European Commission Representation in Italy and adheres to the Digital Republic Manifesto promoted by the Special 
Government Commissioner for the implementation of the Digital Agenda. More details are available in the Chapter "The 
Value Chain -Digital Inclusion". 
 
Although the primary purpose of TIM’s business model is to create long-term value, for the Company and its stakeholders, 
the Group has for some time set itself the essential objective of pursuing this aim while ensuring a balance between 
economic, social and environmental sustainability.  
 
 
Main Shareholders of TELECOM ITALIA S.P.A.  
[GRI 102-5] As at December 31, 2019, the reference shareholder is the French Vivendi S.A., with 23.9% of the ordinary 
share capital. [GRI 102-10] In 2018, Paul Elliott Singer (General Partner of Elliott Capital Advisors LP) acquired an indirect 
stake in TIM, held through the subsidiary companies Elliott International LP, Elliott Associates LP and The Liverpool Limited 
Partnership, equal to 9.6% of ordinary share capital as of December 31, 2019. 
In April 2018 Cassa Depositi e Prestiti entered the shareholding structure of TIM and, at the shareholders’ meeting of 
March 29, 2019, it participated with shares equal to 9.9% of the ordinary share capital. 
The structure of the Net Equity and the number of shares in circulation are shown in the Group’s Consolidated Financial 
Statements. For further information relating to reports made to Consob regarding significant shareholdings, see the 
Report on Operations of the TIM Group. 
During the three-year period 2017-2019, "The share of participation in TIM ordinary capital by Vivendi S.A. is unchanged  
foreign institutional shareholders, including the amounts referable to Paul Elliott Singer, decreased (-3.51 pp), as well as 
Italian institutional shareholders (-2.2 pp) and other shareholders (-4.3 pp). The shares held by the Group remained 
unchanged. 
                                                                 
1 ASSTEL memorandum (Hearing at the IX Commission for Transport, Posts and Telecommunications of the CHAMBER OF DEPUTIES - April 
2019) 
2 Technology that uses a hybrid system of cable and wireless connections to offer broadband and ultrabroadband connectivity services. 
3About 1 million people. 
14 
 