TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE VALUE CHAIN 
 
 [GRI 103-3: Management Approach] [GRI 418] [GRI 418-1] TIM Participações:  
•  at December 31, 2019 there were 892 pending complaints from customers, of which 801 were opened in 2019, 84 in 
2018 and 7 in 2017; 
•  in 2019, 372 complaints were closed. The Judicial Authority decided in favor of TIM Participações in 112 cases, against 
the Company in 130 cases and the remaining 130 were closed through a settlement between the parties.  
In 2019, complaints on this issue increased significantly for all telecommunications companies, not only for TIM 
Participações. 
Anatel has not yet released any analysis on complaints received about customer privacy violations. 
 
It should be noted that the difference between the legislation of Italy and Brazil does not allow for any comparisons to 
be drawn between homogeneous data.    
 
 
 [GRI 103-2: Management Approach] [GRI 418] Research and innovation in e-security 
 
TIM is involved both in research and in innovation regarding cyber security and more generally the security of information 
and networks. Activities carried out in 2019 included the following:  
 
•  the development and application of machine learning1 algorithms and artificial intelligence for the evaluation and 
prediction of the risk level of potentially dangerous e-mail messages and the automatic classification of malware 
samples; 
•  implementation of the responsible disclosure program2 to collect and manage vulnerability reports on TIM services, 
products or equipment spontaneously provided by customers, researchers or security experts. The persons filing 
reports are confident that the vulnerabilities are managed within a guaranteed timeframe and undertake to keep 
what they discover confidential until the countermeasures can be applied; 
•  the creation of a forensic analysis laboratory to support the investigation and analysis activities carried out in case of 
hacking; 
•  ongoing work on the development of a proprietary threat intelligence platform3 to support the collection, analysis and 
consumption of intelligence on new security threats; The relevant issues addressed during the year included: the 
development of criteria for estimating the level of confidence, reliability and relevance of the information acquired, 
the upgrading of breach indicators, and the integration of multiple sources; 
•  participation in the work of the four-year project CONCORDIA4 (Cyber security cOmpeteNCe fOr Research anD 
InnovAtion5), as part of the European research programme Horizon 2020, and in particular the initiative "Establishing 
and operating a pilot for a Cybersecurity Competence Network to develop and implement a common Cybersecurity 
Research & Innovation Roadmap6" with a focus on Intelligence platforms, tools and processes; 
•  overseeing and steering the activities of the 7GSMA (GSM Association) Fraud and Security Group, as Deputy Chair; 
•  the collaboration, within the scope and 3GPP8 SA9 SECAM10, for the definition of the security requirements and test 
methods on devices for 3GPP standard (SECAM) networks and those for the security of 5G infrastructure; 
                                                                 
1 Machine learning programs. 
2 Procedure to report the vulnerabilities of IT systems, leaving the recipient the necessary time to identify and apply the appropriate 
countermeasures, before disclosing them publicly. 
3 Threat intelligence platform. 
4  https://www.concordia-h2020.eu/ 
5 Expertise in cyber security for research and innovation. 
6 Establishing and managing a pilot project for a cyber security skills network in order to develop and implement a common roadmap for research 
and innovation in cyber security. 
7 Fraud and security. 
8 The 3rd Generation Partnership Project. 
9 Security Assurance. 
10 SECurity Assurance Methodology. 
 
139 
 