TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE VALUE CHAIN 
•  participation, within the ETSI1, in the work of TC CYBER focused on cyber security and the ETNO2 field, NSecFC WG 
(Network and Services Security, Fraud and Cybercrime3), and more specifically the CERT TF (Computer Emergency 
Response Team Task Force4); 
•  the implementation of various scouting activities to identify and assess emerging and/or innovative security solutions 
including cyber range technologies (environments/platforms for training and education of personnel on cyber security 
issues and challenges) and cyber deception technologies (technology that tries to deceive hackers by realistically 
replicating the characteristics and components of company networks and making them believe that they are hacking 
the company perimeter and have come into possession of sensitive data relating to devices/systems present in the 
network);  
•  the implementation of multiple security campaigns testing5 to assess the level and adequacy of new equipment, 
instruments, and devices in terms of security. 
 
 
Smart Services 
[GRI 203-1] [GRI 203-2] In the context of public sector services and businesses, in accordance with the Italian Digital 
Agenda (ADI) and European Directives, in 2019 TIM consolidated and streamlined its Smart Services offer (security, 
energy efficiency, environmental and digital services in urban areas, analytics to support sustainable choices from the 
point of view of local and central government) with the aim of promoting the Smart City model to improve the quality 
of life through the development of innovative digital services that move municipalities to a Smart Community model 
(as indicated by the Digital Agenda), to enable new forms of collaboration between citizens, businesses and public 
administrators. 
 
SMART LIGHTING /  Integrated management of the local infrastructural networks and construction of the Smart City 
SMART PARKING  environments. 
6Revenues: over 100,000 euro. 
 
Enabled services: 
• 
planning of electricity consumption and maintenance. Energy saving is estimated within a range 
between 15% (light produced by high-efficiency lamps, e.g. LEDs) and over 30% in the case of light 
produced by old style lamps (e.g. sodium vapor or incandescence). Added to these values is the option 
of varying lighting by switching on and/or reducing the intensity of individual lamp posts; 
• Smart sensor-based parking spaces to optimize the distribution of parking spaces in the local area. 
TIM FLEET  Location and fleet management combined with vehicle telemetry identification and detection systems. 
TRACKING E  Revenues: 5,800,000 euros. 
 TIM YOUR WAY 
Enabled services: 
• 
planning of services and routes; 
• 
reduction of pollutant emissions; 
• 
driver identification solutions, telemetry control; 
• 
solutions for the transport of materials and goods at controlled temperature; 
• driver and vehicle safety services. 
 
TIM ENERGREEN  Remote management of energy consumption, implemented on TIM assets and services, for the purpose 
AND SMART  of saving energy. 
BUILDING  Revenues: 1,552 K euros. 
 
Enabled services: 
• 
on-site energy audit: on-site analysis for energy efficiency; 
• 
Metering & Reporting; 
                                                                 
1 European Telecommunications Standards Institute. 
2 European Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association. 
3 Network and services security, fraud and cybercrime. 
4 Computer Emergency Response Team Task Force. 
5 Safety tests 
6 The revenues from this are not high as it is offered together with other products. 
140 
 