TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE VALUE CHAIN 
In the three years 2020-2022, the smart city and digital territory segment will be one of the reference verticals. They will 
strongly contribute to the development of revenues in the IoT (Internet of Things) segment, whose growth is estimated 
with a 2X factor in the period 2019-2022. 
The Olivetti Smart Lighting1 system combines the replacement of traditional lighting with low energy consumption LED 
lights with the optimization of lighting system management through wireless technology remote control, allowing for 
savings of up to 65%.Assuming an average consumption per capita for public lighting in Italy of about 99.8 kWh2 and 
considering a 50% consumption reduction for a municipality of 100,000 inhabitants using this lighting system, it would 
be possible to achieve overall annual energy savings of 4,990,000 kWh, equal to a 1,926t reduction of CO  emissions 
2
(Scope 2)3. 
TIM's Waste Management service is the offer for managing ecological and waste services provided for door-to-door 
collection or stored in street collection containers. Through more integrated solutions of collection vehicles and hands-
free operators, it is possible to fully manage the waste collection cycle and ecological services in general such as, for 
example, rubbish and decoration of urban areas. 
TIM's Fleet Tracking service and the other TIM Your Way solutions services address the management and monitoring of 
the car park and commercial vehicles. Integrated solutions ranging from integrated platform services to devices 
permanently installed in vehicles, help us to control and reduce fuel consumption, substantially cut the emission of 
pollutants, ensure the safety of staff who drive vehicles and implement a car-sharing system for the use of vehicles in 
shared mode. 
   
                                                                 
1 Olivetti.com/it/iot-big-data/soluzioni-iot/smart-lighting . 
2 Calculation based on data from Terna (the Italian electricity transmission system operator) and ISTAT (the Italian National Institute of 
Statistics), relating to December 2017. 
3 Using the same emission factor used by TIM in this Report for Scope 2 emissions reporting, i.e. 0.386 kg CO2/kWh. 
142 
 