TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE VALUE CHAIN 
depending on the riskiness of the supplier and the value of the purchase: ranging from simple to complex questionnaires 
and document checks to specific audits on sustainability matters. 
[GRI 414-1] Specifically, in 2019, 100% of new suppliers enrolled in the Register signed a specific questionnaire in which 
they commit themselves and any authorized sub-contractors, collaborators and employees to observe the principles of 
behavior contained in the Group’s Code of Ethics and Conduct.1 
While the supply is taking place, registered companies which have received purchase orders in markets that are strategic 
for the Group normally undergo incoming quality control checks (a requirement for the acceptance and use of the 
purchased goods) and monitoring of the vendor rating. Environmental and social audits are also carried out on some of 
these.2 
For some sectors, the Group also measures and monitors subcontracting suppliers, in particular, for network jobs; there 
were 850 subcontracting businesses (-4% compared with 2018 and -9% compared with 2017). In this sector, therefore, 
the estimated total number of suppliers involved in the supply chain was 8703. 
In the last three years, no significant changes have occurred in the structure of the Group’s supply chain. 
 
In the BU Brazil, the products come, as far as possible, from local suppliers. TIM Participações checks that its suppliers 
comply with labour laws also by scrutiny of a particular list (that includes suppliers non-compliant with the laws in 
question), available on the website managed by the "Business Pact for Integrity and Against Corruption and the Brazilian 
National Pact to Eradicate Slave Labor"4. A potential supplier included in the abovemenetioned list - for violating laws 
regarding child, forced or other labor - cannot sell services and products to the Company. In 2019, no supplier who had 
responded to the TIM Participações' social and environmental questionnaire identified risks concerning child and forced 
labor. 
 
Sustainability initiatives 
[GRI 103-2: Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414] In 2019, the process that defines activities aimed at improving 
the sustainability of the supply chain continued to be applied. These activities involve the qualification, incoming quality 
and vendor rating stages. 
In particular, the suppliers were classified according to the potential risks associated with their sustainability performance, 
carried out using a specific method that considers the social-environmental and business continuity aspects associated 
with the procurement markets in which they operate. For this reason, the procurement markets (i.e. procurement 
categories homogeneous among themselves) have been classified in accordance with parameters such as: 
•  the geographical areas of reference and the risks connected with them, 
•  the potential impact on the environment and on the society of the suppliers’ activities and of the products and 
services supplied throughout their entire life cycle, including risks relating to violations of Human Rights, employment 
and environmental, 
•  the impact on the reputation of TIM as a customer. 
 
[GRI 103-2: Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414] A matrix has been created which, by relating the spending 
associated with the specific purchase market to the risk index calculated on the basis of the parameters listed, has 
allowed purchase markets to be divided into four classes, identifying those that are critical from the point of view of 
sustainability and economic impact. Suppliers belonging to the classes at greatest risk are the subject of sustainability 
audits carried out by third party companies specializing in the sector. These audits are repeated periodically to monitor 
the implementation of any corrective actions and, if the results are positive, to verify that the standard of performance 
found is being maintained over time. The tools developed and used for the Domestic BU have been explained and 
transferred to the Brazil BU. 
 
                                                                 
1 In Brazil the percentage was 96%. 
2 [GRI 103-2:Management Approach] [GRI 308] [GRI 414] In particular, checks are envisaged on health and safety and the environment, the result 
of which goes towards forming the supplier rating, to which the system of penalties/incentives is connected. Checks are also envisaged in relation 
to respect for employment legislation. 
3 In the Brazilian BU, at present there is no systematic monitoring of level two suppliers.  
'4 Companies Integrity Pact, against corruption, and the Brazilian National Pact for the Elimination of Forced Labor. 
 
148 
 