TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
APPENDIX 
Foreign industry  • Network  and  services  security,  fraud  and  •  Participation  in  the  work  of  the  GSM 
associations and  cyber crime  Association's fraud and security group1, 
as Deputy Chairman. 
federations 
•  Collaboration, in relation to 3 GPP2 SA3 
SECAM4,  in  defining  the  safety 
requirements of the 5G infrastructure. 
•  Participation, in relation to ETNO5, in the 
work  of  the  subgroup  Computer 
Emergence Response Team Task Force 
(CERT TF) 6. (Value chain/Protection of 
privacy and personal data) 
Foreign industry  • Protection of vulnerable categories   •  Participation in work groups in relation to 
“Mobile  Alliance  against  Child  Sexual 
associations 
Abuse  Content  (GSMA)”  to  protect 
children  on  mobile  phones  (Value 
chain/Child protection) 
 
 
Financial community 
Stakeholders  •  Themes and   Engagement methods 
▪  Actions/commitments 
 
institutional  and  • Updated  information,  financial  and  non- •  On  the  Group's  website7  and  in  the 
retail investors, small  financial, on the Group, with the greatest  shareholders' club “TI Alw@ys ON”8, TIM 
shareholders’  attention to the needs of all the various  provides  important  information  to 
associations,  categories of stakeholders  individual investors individuali and the 
bondholders, socially  general  public  (about  96,000  active 
responsible investors,  members  in  2019).  (The  TIM 
equity  and  credit  Group/Stakeholders engagement). 
analysts.   
 
Shareholders,  • cash generation and potential support for  •  In 2019, the Investor Relations function 
bondholders, socially  the  Group's  deleverage  path  with  ran more than 900 direct, group and 
responsible investors,  extraordinary options;  individual meetings, with audio or video. 
equity  and  credit  • the network sharing agreement signed with  There were four calls when the annual 
analysts.  Vodafone  to  develop  5G  and  share  the  and quarterly results were announced, 
mobile network;  road shows and meetings at the Group's 
• the  consumer  credit  agreement  with  offices (reverse road shows), and the 
Santander and the set-up of a dedicated  Group took part in the main conferences 
joint venture;  in the TLC sector. 
• the agreement with Google Cloud to develop 
and push TIM in the Italian market for the 
cloud, with a focus on dynamics of data 
center development;   
• potential  forms  of  association  with  Open 
Fiber; 
• 5G and potential competitive development; 
• growth  of  customers  served  by  FTTx 
technology,  convergent  services  and 
                                                                 
1 Fraud and security. 
2 The 3rd Generation Partnership Project. 
3 Security Assurance. 
4 SECurity Assurance Methodology. 
5 European Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association. 
6 Computer Emergency Response Team Task Force. 
7 (https://www.telecomitalia.com/tit/it/investors.html) 
8 (https://www.telecomitalia.com/tit/it/investors/azioni/investitori-individuali/club-tialwayson.html) 
  
171 
 