TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE GROUP 
Letter from the Chief Executive Officer to the 
stakeholders   
Telecommunications networks can be considered the nervous system of modern societies: a complex and widespread 
system, sensitive to the digital progress of an entire economy.  
Thanks to this, telecommunications operators play an essential role in the economic and social growth of countries. A 
sustainable economic and social system is built on sustainable, inclusive and environmentally friendly digital networks 
and services. 
As a leading company in Italy, we can make the difference by taking action on the environment, social issues and 
governance to reinforce society, families and businesses.  
Acknowledging this, the following responsibility brought us to develop our 2020-2022 Strategic Plan focused on 
sustainable themes. The key elements, identified in line with the UN's Sustainable Development Goals, on which our 
three-year strategic plan is based on, are three: the development of sustainable networks, services that improve the 
sustainability of businesses and help citizens’ lives, enhancement and development of our human resources.  
 
We will work to update our networks and provide more efficient data centers, leading not only to significant energy 
savings for the Group but also for customers who use our platforms and services.  We will increase the use of cleaner 
energy sources, which will eventually result in more stable underlying costs.  In brief, less and cleaner energy – for TIM 
and our customers. Our goal is ambitious: achieve carbon neutrality in 2030. 
Innovation and sustainability will be our twin guides as we select and develop new services. The Internet of Things will 
increasingly change the way companies operate by enabling greater automation of risky processes and achieve more 
efficient use of natural resources such as water, gas and energy.  We will continue to develop transport-related services, 
to give authorities and citizens the information they need to improve mobility. 5G networks will make another major 
contribution to connectivity and value-added services, even thanks to robotics and Big Data. Security and customer data 
protection services, together with "cloud" services will reinforce Italian companies. 
To develop our human capital, we will focus even more on training through initiatives for young people and talented staff, 
with job rotation, professional growth pathways, learning new skills and harnessing the benefits of diversity. Our efforts 
will not be just for our people but for the whole society: citizens, businesses and Institutions. This is the idea behind 
Operazione Risorgimento Digitale – a huge training program open to all Italians. Initially set up as a travelling digital school 
that would visit all 107 Italian provinces; after the Coronavirus emergency, it has been rethought and enriched with a 
series of initiatives that allow everyone to exploit the potential of the digital world in response to the crisis.   
As much as our Group will influence positively on citizens’ lives, in the organization of our cities and in the relationship 
between Institutions and citizens, TIM's value will grow. 
 
Our commitment to corporate responsibility as an integral part of our strategies has been confirmed for the sixteenth 
year in a row by our inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Europe, along with other big global indexes such as 
3 
 