TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE GROUP 
Digital Culture Projects  
In a coordinated and complementary manner with respect to the Country’s technological infrastructure path, the TIM 
Group aims to improve the digital literacy of the population and enhance excellence in the country using the potential of 
the internet.   
 
Digital skills have been one of the key factors in economies achieving a competitive advantage over the past 20 years, as 
shown by much of the work carried out by the OECD and the European Commission. On this front, the Digital Agenda 
asks EU countries to take action to broaden knowledge of digital tools and increase the number of people with evolved 
digital skills, particularly by teaching ICT in schools. With this in mind, schools must make a radical change in the way 
they plan and provide education, and in the way pupils, teachers and parents interact. Because of the importance of this 
subject, the European Commission constantly monitors the speed with which digital technologies are being introduced 
in schools and in teaching.  
 
Since 2016, TIM has promoted the TIM ScuolaDigitale. During the 2016–2017 and 2017–2018 school years, the project 
aimed to bring school teachers of all levels and qualifications more into contact with digital tools, to give them an 
overview of technologies that add value and provide new opportunities for teaching. Over two years, more than 200 
meetings were held throughout Italy, involving over 4,500 teachers. For the 2018–2019 school year, the project aims to 
make children in their first year of high school more familiar with the key concepts of new technologies, the Internet of 
Things and robotics, stimulating students’ creativity and passion and transforming them from passive to aware and active 
users of technology. Three thousand children got involved in the classes over the school year, and the web platform 
scuoladigitale.tim.it had 54,000 unique visitors, more than 92,000 visits to its pages and about 10,000 views of its video 
lessons. For the school year 2019–2020, the new edition of ScuolaDigitaleTIM will provide a training course on digital 
technology and in particular on coding, in schools throughout Italy and especially regions with fewer STEM students.1 The 
students will be involved in practical workshops where they can try computing and creative learning for the first time, 
taking on real challenges and learning by gaming, on environmental sustainability, sensible internet use and the potential 
of new 5G networks. As in previous editions, the training course will be available on-site, with meetings planned in schools 
and online through the platform scuoladigitale.tim.it. Also, to further stimulate pupils and improve their experience and 
memories, the initiative involves an open contest for children who have been taking part both in class and online. 
 
DonaconTIM is TIM's new charity ecosystem, linked to the old method of phone donations, to better support non-profit 
organizations'  humanitarian,  scientific  and environmental  projects,  as  well  as emergencies in  Italy and  abroad. 
DonaconTIM is made up a of a web portal, donacontim.gruppotim.it, and an app which gives the choice to donate to 
different fundraising campaigns easily and safely. In 2019 DonaconTIM gathered more than 410,000 euros from just under 
300 donors.  
 
In 2019 TIM also made some of its assets (technology, project management and human resources) available to the Radio 
Dynamo project of the Dynamo Camp, which hosts 200 families and 1,300 children aged six to 17 and suffering from 
serious illnesses, free of charge every year. The web-based radio station (radiodynamo.it) is one of the most popular 
activities at the camp, and also one of the major activities of its outreach program outside the camp, which allows it to 
reach out to many young people all year round who, for whatever reason, cannot come to the camp.  
 
The Group looks favorably upon and, where appropriate, supports social, cultural and educational initiatives aimed at the 
enhancement of the individual and the improvement of their living conditions. Hence Fondazione TIM's (FTIM) mission to 
promote a culture of digital change and innovation, for integration, communication, economic and social growth.  
The investment strategy implemented by TIM Participações aims to promote the social inclusion of disadvantaged groups 
in Brazilian society, particularly children and teenagers, through educational projects that reinforce the concept of 
“enterprise without boundaries” including in the social sphere. It was in this spirit that Instituto TIM was founded in 2013.  
   
                                                                 
1 STEM: science, technology, engineering and mathematics (also known as SMET) university courses. 
 
21 
 