TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE GROUP 
The commitment of Fondazione TIM  
The TIM Group companies are particularly attentive to the needs of the communities in which they operate and 
implement wide-ranging initiatives and projects dedicated to their social and economic development. Fondazione TIM's 
(FTIM) mission is to promote a culture of digital change and innovation, and thus integration, communication, economic 
and social growth. FTIM can operate, in Italy and abroad, by the methods and with the tools that are considered 
appropriate in each case for it to achieve its statutory purposes. 
In accordance with this mission, four areas of intervention have been identified. 
•  Education: innovation in teaching and education, promoting initiatives aimed at updating the technology in Italian 
schools and introducing radical innovations in educational methods and tools. 
•  Innovation Culture: a program of unconventional activities in the world of foundations for the purpose of promoting 
a culture of innovation and becoming a point of reference for this. 
•  Social Empowerment: non-profit-making organization are businesses. FTIM promotes both the better use of new 
technologies and improved management and efficiency to help the organizations “do good well”. 
•  Historic and Artistic Heritage: Italian artistic heritage represents excellence in the “technology of the past”. FTIM 
wants to contribute to its enhancement and public use through present-day technology.  
The Fondazione TIM’s projects take place according to the following criteria. 
PROJECT SELECTION AND 
TOOLS  STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES 
MONITORING 
The selection is made based on the 
FTIM  works  to  spread  the  culture  of 
social impact of projects, which must 
FTIM pursues its objectives by  innovation, to foster solidarity and civil, 
be  measurable,  sustainable  and 
assigning  contributions  to  cultural  and  economic  development, 
replicable.  
projects put forward by third- and  is  committed  to  working  for  an 
The  monitoring  system  is 
increasingly  digital,  advanced  and 
party  individuals  and  non- established according to the specific 
competitive Italy, to improve people's 
profit institutions, according to  characteristics  and  objectives  of 
living  conditions.  This  translates  to 
requirements  established  by  each  project.  Monitoring  is  a 
innovative  projects  for  the  promotion 
the Board of Directors. Since  requirement for all projects, whether 
and diffusion of science and technology, 
selected by tender or directly. As 
2015 FTIM has also run several  as well as the development of models, 
well  as  being  an  eligibility 
such projects itself.  technological  tools  and  systems  to 
requirement,  it  also  provides  an 
support non-profit associations. 
assessment parameter. 
 
In 2019, FTIM concentrated its resources on a number of important projects which allowed it to focus increasingly on 
technological innovation to improve the solutions identified and broaden the range of beneficiaries. Thanks in part to the 
push for open-source solutions, this will improve our impact on our national community exponentially.  
 
In the realm of education, FTIM, CNR-ITD1 and ANP2 have launched the platform TRIS.2, the first I-MOOC3 for training 
teachers at all Italian schools on how to manage an inclusive, hybrid class, that is to say one in which some pupils may 
have to be linked digitally from home. At the same time a Framework Agreement was signed with the MIUR to promote 
participation in the course and monitor the results of its implementation.  
 
Remaining in the field of Education, the collaboration between FTIM and Accademia della Scala continued. It is intended 
to enhance and promote the work of one of Italy’s centers of excellence, and to innovate in the field of training, in order 
to hand down valuable traditional trades, encourage young talent and get youngsters into the world of work; More 
information is available on the FTIM site (www.fondazionetim.it). 
 
                                                                 
1 CNR-ITD Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche - Istituto delle Tecnologie Didattiche. 
2 NAP: Associazione Nazionale Dirigenti Pubblici e Alte Professionalità della Scuola.  
3  MOOC: Massive Open Online Courses. 
22 
 