TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE GROUP 
FTIM has also collaborated with the University of Camerino, on the project "Python@Camerino", to respond to the 
earthquakes in Central Italy in 2016. The project involves setting up a permanent educational workshop with tools for 
training and the university's research on IT.  
 
The project Net4Neet, in collaboration with InnovaFiducia, has come to an end. It involved a group of children and was 
the prototype of a platform for creating dialog between young people and the world of work and for building a community 
to fight social marginalization.  
 
As part of its commitment to the enhancement of historical and artistic heritage, FTIM signed an agreement with the 
Municipality of Rome on December 2015 which provides funding of 6 million euros for the restoration of the Mausoleum 
of Augustus, a priceless monument from the 1st century AD.  
In addition to the restoration convention, another agreement was signed with the municipal council for enhancement 
and multimedia activities, to be directly implemented by FTIM, an expense of 2 million euros. Work is expected to be 
complete by December 2021. Full details of the project can be found on the http://www.mausoleodiaugusto.it/ website, 
which has received many national and international awards. 
 
Also within the remit of artistic and historic heritage, FTIM has come out with “L’arte che accoglie: inclusione nei musei 
attraverso l’utilizzo di tecnologie innovative” (“welcoming art: inclusion in museums through innovative technologies”), 
which creates solutions based on innovative, accessible, effective and efficient technologies in order to make artwork in 
museums enjoyable for everyone. Sixty-three institutions took part in the competition (as leads or partners) and 42 
projects were presented. The evaluations are under way to find the winner. 
 
In 2019 FTIM opened an internal competition, “TIMPEOPLE for Good”, to support the best proposals by people from the 
TIM Group. 
 
In the field of social empowerment, FTIM has confirmed its decade-long commitment to people with special needs. The 
program will last several years and involve screening, IT campuses, digital books and the dissemination of a more inclusive 
approach in schools. "Dislessia Amica Livello Avanzato" ("friends of dyslexics: advanced level") is a project begun in the 
2018–2019 school year, aims to qualify 85% of Italian schools as "friends of dyslexics", through a free e-learning course 
for all teachers, from nursery to high school, with specific training for different school years.  
 
FTIM knows that inclusion begins with recognizing and understanding a problem, so in 2019 it started a big digital 
campaign for World Dyslexia Day. Its aim is to create a more inclusive atmosphere, based on a culture of teaching children 
with specific disorders. The campaign wants everyone to see what it is like living with this problem.  
 
Elsewhere in social empowerment, FTIM is dealing with communication and developmental disorders through two 
important initiatives. Smart@pp 2.0 involves setting up a platform to train teachers how to monitor children's 
development and use teaching strategies favored for developmental problems in nurseries. In the field of autism, we 
have opened the tender for “Liberi di comunicare. Tecnologie intelligenti per superare le barriere dell’autismo” (“Free to 
communicate: intelligent technologies for getting over the barriers of autism”), through which we intend to use the most 
innovative technologies to create effective, adaptable and lasting solutions for people with autism. 
  
Last but not least in social empowerment, we are bringing to a close the "SmarTevere" project, done with Agenda Tevere 
Onlus. This involved sustainable growth, environmental and cultural preservation and urban and social regeneration on 
the river Tiber. We wanted to give the river back to Rome and turn it into a shared place. 
 
In the interests of a culture of innovation, FTIM launched Unistem Reloaded, which will take place over 2019 and 2020, in 
a joint action with Centro UniStem at the University of Milan, to inspire young people to choose training and professional 
courses in science and technology, spread reliable and provable scientific information in a stimulating, fun way, and 
ensure the results have a real impact. Within this we also created Unistem Tour, a two-year project for thousands of 
high-school pupils aged 16 to 19, in which some of the top Italian scientists will stop at 30 schools around the country, 
from North to South and on the islands.   
23 
 