TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE GROUP 
Instituto TIM  
In 2013, the TIM Institute was founded with the aim of defining strategies and providing resources for the dissemination 
of science and innovation to support the development of the community in Brazil, particularly by means of mobile 
technology. 
Four areas of activity were identified in which to develop projects: 
•  education/teaching 
•  application 
•  work 
•  social inclusion 
 
The Instituto TIM’s projects are carried out according to the following criteria. 
 
TOOLS  STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES  PROJECT SELECTION AND MONITORING 
•  Partnerships  with •  Implementation of educational  •  Projects  are  selected  according  to 
organizations, institutions and  projects for the social inclusion  their  relevance  to  the  company’s 
public and private entities.  of young people and teenagers.  strategies and requirements. 
•  Free  software/open  source  •  Implementation  of  training  •  Initiatives are monitored and a final 
technologies and materials.  projects to encourage daily use  evaluation  is  carried  out  on 
of  the  Internet  and  mobile  completion. A report is drawn up for 
phones  as  tools  for  social  each project that provides a detailed 
development and inclusion.  description of the initiative and the 
results achieved, also in quantitative 
terms. 
Instituto TIM's work has already reached all 26 Brazilian states and the Federal District, benefiting more than 700,000 
people.  
Below are some of the projects it has completed. 
O Círculo da Matemática do Brasil (Brazilian Math Circle)  
One of the greatest obstacles to scientific and technological progress in Brazil is the poor standard of maths teaching in 
schools. According to the Ministry of Education, only 42% of students in the third year of primary school can do simply 
arithmetic like addition and subtraction. In PISA1 in 2018, based on the results achieved in maths by its students, Brazil 
came 70th on a list of 79 countries.  By focusing attention on the first few years of primary school, the O Círculo da 
Matemática do Brasil project, working with its founders, professors Bob and Ellen Kaplan of Harvard University, introduces 
the Maths Circle approach to the Country, perfecting and adapting its content to the Brazilian context.  Launched in 2013, 
the project has involved around 25,000 pupils and 4,500 teachers in 29 cities.  
 
 
   
                                                                 
1 Program for International Student Assessment. 
24 
 