TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE GROUP 
 
[GRI 102-33] [GRI 102-34] [GRI 102-17] In November 2015, TIM implemented the new Whistleblowing1 procedure, which 
provides for the centralized management, by the Audit Department, of all reports -including those that are the 
responsibility of the Board of Statutory Auditors, particularly in its role as the 231 Supervisory Body -via a compute app 
which whistleblowers can use to access the company Intranet. Since 2016, this reporting channel has also been accessible 
via the Group’s website. Reports may be made by any employee, collaborator, consultant, freelance worker, as well as 
third parties who have business relations with the Group. The system assigns each report a unique identification code 
which enables the whistleblower to check the processing status in anonymity. 
[GRI 102-17] [GRI 103-1] As stated in article 4 of the Group Code of Ethics and Conduct, any requests for clarification 
regarding the appropriateness of one’s own conduct or the conduct of other people, in order to ensure full compliance 
with the Code and the values set by the Code itself, must be addressed to the Head of the Audit Department of TIM S.p.A. 
or to the Head of the Audit Department of the Group’s overseas company directly involved, in accordance with specific 
internal procedures. 
[GRI 102-17] Using the Whistleblowing procedure, the entities must be promptly informed of the following by the 
recipients of the Code and those who have undertaken to comply with it: 
•  any violations, requests or inducements to violate legal provisions or regulations, provisions of the Code and internal 
procedures with regard to the activities and services of interest to the Group; 
•  any irregularities or negligence in accounting procedures, keeping of relevant accounting documentation, fulfilling 
reporting obligations or internal management in Group companies. 
There are no negative consequences for those who have made a report in good faith and the confidentiality of the identity 
of people making reports is in any case guaranteed by appropriate internal procedures, subject to legal requirements.  
No recipient of the Code, employee or third party having business relations with the Group can be subject to sanctions or 
otherwise discriminated against if he/she refuses to perform actions or adopt a conduct which are considered, in good 
faith, to infringe the Code, even if this refusal should result in a loss of business or other adverse consequence for the 
company’s business and/or the Group.  
 
In Brazil TIM Participações uses an automated end-to-end management system of reports, accessible via the intranet 
and from the company’s website, automatically recording all reports received and allowing the reporter to monitor the 
progress made on each case.   
  
[GRI 102-34] In 2019, the Whistleblowing procedure resulted in 165 reports made in Italy and 927 in Brazil. The Human 
Rights section of this report illustrates the reports received concerning alleged violations of Human Rights and 
employment rights. The Board of Statutory Auditors’ Report states the number of reports received by the Board of 
Statutory Auditors and provides a summary of the assessments carried out by the Board itself.  
 
[GRI 102-35] [GRI 102-36] The remuneration policy for the members of the Board of Directors is determined in accordance 
with legal requirements and the bylaws, according to which: 
•  [GRI 102-37] The Shareholders’ Meeting determines the total gross annual remuneration of the Board of Directors 
(and of the directors holding specific offices: Chairman and CEO); expresses an opinion on the first section of the 
Remuneration Report (RR); passes resolutions regarding remuneration plans based on the allocation of financial 
instruments; 
•  The Board of Directors resolves, on the proposal of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, on the allocation 
of the fees determined by the Shareholders’ Meeting (when established as a total amount for the body as a whole); 
it defines, again on the proposal of the Committee, the remuneration policy of Executive Directors and Key Managers 
with Strategic Responsibilities. The Board of Directors is also responsible for making proposals to the Shareholders’ 
Meeting regarding remuneration plans based on the allocation of financial instruments for Directors and employees 
and for drawing up the Remuneration Report (RR). 
 
                                                                 
1 The aforementioned Procedure was being updated, also following the entry into force of Law No. 179 of November 30, 2017, “Provisions on the 
protection of parties reporting offenses or irregularities of which they become aware of in the context of a public or private employment 
relationship” and was published on January 28, 2019. 
28 
 