TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE GROUP 
 
 
Fight against corruption  
[GRI 103-1] [GRI 205] Corruption is amply acknowledged as one of the factors that harms company competitiveness, 
socio-economic growth and community well-being.  
Confirming the ongoing Group commitment to fight any form of corruption, in 2019 the Parent, TIM S.p.A. adopted the 
Anti-bribery Management System (also ‘SGA’) for which it attained UNI ISO 37001 “Anti-bribery Management Systems” 
certification through a credited body. The anti-bribery management system was defined to support the company in the 
prevention, recognition and response to actions linked to corruption, in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws 
and the other voluntary undertakings that apply to its business, and is integral to the broader internal control system 
implemented by the company. 
 
The SGA includes the following tools: 
•  Code of Ethics and Conduct;  
•  the Group Anti-Corruption Policy (adopted in 2012 with latest update in 2019), to provide a systemic reference 
framework for how to manage preventing corruption1;  
•  the document “Anti-Corruption Management system of TIM S.p.A.”;  
•  company protocols, especially Organization and Operating Procedures. 
The TIM Anti-corruption Management System integrates the broader anti-corruption compliance program, including the 
231 Organizational Model (approved by the Board of Directors in 2003 and recently updated in July 2018) which also 
includes the corruption prevention area. Moreover, during 2019 a 231 Organizational Model revision and updating process 
began, concerning how the model was designed and the risk assessment method. The new 231 Organizational Model is 
expected to be released in the first quarter 2020. 
[GRI 205-1a] The anti-bribery management system applies to TIM and the members of its corporate bodies, employees 
and various business partners. Subsidiaries are required to apply the anti-bribery management system or certain controls 
for the prevention of corruption to the extent that is reasonable and proportional with respect to the risk of corruption 
that said subsidiaries are subject to. 
From an organization point of view, the Compliance Department, assigned to the Group Compliance Officer, is attributed 
the compliance function role for preventing Corruption, responsible for implementing and monitoring the Anti-bribery 
Management system in the company and, more generally, its compliance with Standard ISO 37001 requirements. 
Moreover, the Steering Committee 231 is assigned general responsibility for implementing and compliance with the Anti-
bribery Management System.  
[GRI 103-2: Management Approach] [GRI 205] The Anti-corruption Policy identifies the following sensitive areas, 
specifically monitored to guarantee compliance with the prohibition to accept or offer bribes: 
•  gifts and entertainment expenses; 
•  events and sponsorships; 
•  donations/membership fees; 
•  buying of goods and services; 
•  consultancy, brokering, Business Partner; 
•  joint ventures, acquisitions and sales; 
•  screening, recruitment and management of staff. 
 
                                                                 
1 available at the link (www.telecomitalia.com, section The Group, Governance/Procedures System) 
31 
 