TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE GROUP 
The feedback that the various stakeholders provide to TIM is analyses to identify solutions the Company can offer to 
satisfy the specific requirements. At the end of the feasibility analysis and verification process, TIM decides which solutions 
to offer, which projects and which initiatives to undertake. Stakeholder involvement continues beyond this and serves to 
monitor and adjust the initiatives.  
TIM has drawn up general guidelines for group stakeholder engagement and a set of policies associated with different 
kinds of stakeholders, including customer service charters, a policy on relations with suppliers in purchasing processes, 
the code of conduct for protecting the data of other local operators, guidelines for relations with local authorities and 
other organizations, guidelines for voluntary contributions to the Community.  
Customers 
With a view to including customers, general satisfaction is measured (Customer Satisfaction Index), as are the conciliation 
procedures, as described in the "Value chain" section of this report. 
 
Shareholders  
The Group is aware of the importance of providing accurate information on its activities to the financial market, investors 
and the community in general.  
Subject to the need for confidentiality in the running of the business, communication with the financial market is carried 
out in a way that ensures transparency, fairness, clarity, promptness and equality of access to information, ensuring 
equality of treatment for all categories of shareholders, as required by the bylaws.  
The external communication of information is governed by specific internal procedures, in line with the regulations in 
force.  
The Company has set up dedicated channels of communication with shareholders, bondholders and stakeholders 
interested in receiving information about the financial and non-financial aspects of the Company.  
The Investor Relations Department manages relations with the main stakeholders: institutional and retail investors 
(including small shareholders’ associations), bondholders, socially responsible investors, equity and credit analysts.  
 
Once again in 2019 the Company organized quarterly conference calls, road shows abroad, meetings with the institutional 
offices of the Group (reverse road show) and participation in sector conferences; these activities were accompanied by 
direct contacts and phone conversations managed by the Investor Relations team on a daily basis.  
 
For a detailed focus on the activities carried out over the year and the topics of greatest interest that emerged, refer to 
the “Information for Investors” section of the TIM Group’s 2019 Annual Financial Report and the dedicated area of the 
website www.telecomitalia.com. 
 
The “TI Alw@ys ON” Shareholders’ Club (telecomitalia.com/individuali) was launched in 2006 as a virtual meeting place 
for the Company and its individual investors. Free access to the Club allows you to subscribe to and receive economic-
financial information services (weekly stock market report, SMS alerts, etc.).  
 
Financial communication, finally, focuses on the web as an important means of sharing information with the outside 
world: in this sense, the Investors channel on the website telecomitalia.com is constantly updated with presentations of 
the quarterly financial results, intermediate and annual reports, notices and documentation useful for the Shareholders’ 
Meeting and the financial calendar of the Company. 
 
 
[GRI 102-43] [GRI 102-44] The Group’s main stakeholder engagement initiatives taken in 2019 are summarized in the 
Appendix.  
In the diagram, each initiative is marked by an icon that represents the type of relationship: 
•  “information” refers to one-way communications by the Company with stakeholders;  
•  “consultation” refers to the occasions when stakeholders are asked for their opinion through surveys or similar tools;  
•  “dialogues” refers to the discussions and ongoing and stable cooperation between the Group and stakeholders;  
•  “partnership” refers to the specific projects that are managed together. 
 
36 
 