TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE GROUP 
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 
Risks  Management 
Risks related to general sustainability  TIM  oversees  relations  with  its  stakeholders  through  various  dedicated 
topics,  partnership  management  departments. These carry out various initiatives and projects to involve and 
(strategic,  innovative  technology,  consult stakeholders, to improve the company's environmental, social and 
multimedia  and  entertainment),  governance performance, maximizing reputation and value. Sustainability 
dispute  management  and  dealing  reporting  Monitoring  &  Relationships  oversees  the  various  stakeholder 
with  related  decisions  (appeal,  engagement initiatives and monitors their outcomes. In particular, Chief 
conciliation, etc.) and the protection of  Innovation  and  Partnership  Office,  in  conjunction  with  Chief  Strategy, 
workers’ rights, including the right to  Customer experience and Transformation Office, governs innovation and 
privacy.  research  activities  to  develop  new  services  through  the  incubation  of 
technologies, enhancing strategic partnerships and the ecosystem of start-
 
ups. The company also oversees the management of the process of external 
and  internal  disputes,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  TIM's  231 
 
Organizational Model (including the Code of Ethics and Conduct), as well as 
  in  compliance  with  the  internal  procedure  governing  the  execution  of 
  transactions with related parties, and safeguarding workers' rights, including 
In Brazil  the right to privacy. 
Risks  connected  to  purchasing  and   
negotiating with suppliers, integration  To  circulate  its  guiding  principles,  values  and  conduct  expected,  TIM 
of the strategy with corporate values  Participações has introduced corporate standards, including its own Code of 
and  culture,  management  of  Ethics, the anti-corruption policy and the organizational model, in line with 
transactions with related parties and  the sector's best practices and with principles declared in the Global Compact 
identification of conflicts of interest  of the United Nations, which the Group formally adhered to in 2008. 
 
 
INTEGRATION OF SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND GOVERNANCE ASPECTS INTO CORPORATE 
STRATEGIES  
Risks  Management 
Risks related to the failure to adopt  TIM has internal policies and procedures that integrate sustainability issues 
ESG  indicators  for  measuring  into  company  processes;  the  Corporate  Digital  Communication  &  CSV 
company performance in relation to  Projects department oversees the implementation of projects for generating 
the  objectives  set  in  the  company  shared value, in addition the Sustainable Reporting, Monitoring & Relationship 
strategies.  departments oversees the relevant legislation and monitors the progress of 
sustainability issues. 
 
 
In  Brazil  the  risk  was  not  deemed 
significant. 
 
 
42 
 