TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE GROUP 
MANAGING THE WORKFORCE 
Risks  Management 
Risk  related  to  the  failure  to  TIM is compliant with the obligations on workplace safety also through the 
implement/incorrect interpretation of  definition and periodic updating of the Risk Assessment Document. It also 
legislation  on  workers’  rights  guarantees the implementation of legislation on workers’ rights defining 
(safeguarding  of  workers’  rights,  appropriate application standards aimed at personnel management roles as 
including the right to privacy; safety in 
well as regulations and specific provisions aimed at all personnel. The 
the workplace)  
Performance  Management  process,  regularly  implemented  at  both 
 
management and operational staff level, defines systems for measuring 
 
performance at all levels, professional and managerial, providing fair and 
 
objective recognition of the individual merit of enabling the development 
 
processes and plans. 
In Brazil  
Risks related to the management of 
TIM Participações adopts a policy that defines the principles applicable to all 
the workforce and employees' rights, 
internal  activities  of  the  Company  and  aims  at  promoting  continuous 
mainly in terms of health and safety 
improvement of health and safety in the workplace. It also guarantees the 
regulations in the workplace. 
observance of related laws and regulations and of the Group's guidelines, 
 
contributing to the prevention of accidents and occupational illnesses in 
companies of the TIM Group in Brazil. 
 
DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMPANY'S HUMAN CAPITAL 
Risks  Management 
Risks  related  to  the  adaptation  of  TIM optimise's the mix of capabilities necessary to maintain a competitive 
specialist  skills  needed  to  ensure  advantage  in  mature  markets  and  strengthen  the  positioning in  those 
business transformation with a focus  focused on digital and innovative services (e.g. IoT in the context of 5G). In 
on the development of 5G networks  order to achieve said objectives, skill assessments are structured for the 
and associated innovative services  mapping of existing skills and training courses, often available on a dedicated 
online e-learning platform and intended for multiple subjects according to 
 
personal development business needs. There are also initiatives for specific 
training and workshops held in person, according to the strategic need to 
 
develop company skill sets, especially digital skill sets. 
 
Of note in 2019, in Italy, is the signing of the expansion contract between the 
  company and the social partners which, among other things, envisages the 
launch of a recruitment programme, seeking professional profiles compatible 
 
with  the  company's  re-industrialization/reorganization  plan  and  the 
implementation of a skills upgrading programme for all personnel, to support 
 
retraining, reskilling and upskilling, including key internalisation of core, 
  advanced and traditional technical and specialist activities. 
In Brazil  
The risk was not deemed significant. 
 
43 
 