TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE GROUP 
MANAGING THE HEALTH AND SAFETY OF WORKERS 
Risks  Management 
Risk  related  to  the  failure  to  TIM is compliant with the obligations on workplace safety also through the 
implement/incorrect interpretation of  definition and periodic updating of the Risk Assessment Document. It also 
legislation on health & safety at work  guarantees the implementation of legislation on workers’ rights defining 
and to implement the provisions of  appropriate application standards aimed at personnel management roles as 
company policies in the “Safety” area.  well as regulations and specific provisions aimed at all personnel. 
It uses criteria and instruments to identify and manage the different Safety 
 
operating problems, and a control system at different levels on protecting 
health and safety in the workplace and the environment performed by the 
 
Health, Safety & Environment department as part of the Company Prevention 
  and Protection Service.  
In order to further strengthen governance on Safety issues, during the year 
  the company set up a specific steering committee with the responsibility of 
ensuring, in line with TIM's industrial plan, the definition of the strategic 
In Brazil 
objectives of Health Safety & Environment, the vertical action plans of the 
The  description  of  this  risk  and  its 
individual  employer  lines  and  the  transversal  actions,  as  well  as  the 
related  management  have  been 
monitoring of the relative progress and finally ensuring the sharing of specific 
considered  within  the  theme 
"Management of the workforce"  activities aimed at promoting the "Safety Culture" and good behavior in 
  terms of health, safety and the environment. 
 
 
FAIR MANAGEMENT OF CUSTOMER RELATIONS 
Risks  Management 
Risks related to the improvement of  The  Company  has  redefined  and  evolved  the  Quality  and  Customer 
Quality and Customer Experience  Experience  Improvement  Programme  ("TIM  around  the  Customer" 
reference), in a "quality-by-design" logic. The “TIM around the Customer” 
 
project includes various initiatives based on transparency, simplicity and 
respect  for  the  customer.  In  this  field,  improvement  plans  have  been 
 
launched with targeted actions and various initiatives that, with the aim of 
  transforming the culture, involve all employees in innovative ways: “make the 
difference”, “idea sharing” and a story about customer experience (where 
  employees are the actors). To drive this transformation TIM has developed an 
extensive listening system, which picks up on customer experience in the 
 
different “moments of truth” of the customer journey, for example: web 
  browsing,  purchasing  a  service,  calling  customer  care,  reporting  a 
malfunction,  posting  on  social  media.  Of  the  surveys  conducted,  the 
  monitoring of the Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI), based on the ACSI 
standard (American Customer Satisfaction Index), is particularly significant. 
 
The aim is to collect information on the quality perceived by TIM customers 
  and the main competitors. 
 
 
44 
 