TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE GROUP 
   
In Brazil  In July 2018, TIM Participações created a multi-disciplinary committee on 
Risks  related  to  integration  of  the  diversity  (Elo  Diversidade)  to  make  sure  that  diversity  initiatives  are 
company values and culture strategy,  increasingly more effective. The group mission is to propose new ideas, 
and  to  sustainability  and  social  improve accessibility, build a welcoming environment and develop new 
sources of talent.  
responsibility. 
 
 
STIMULATE THE SPREAD OF E-TECHNOLOGIES AND E-SKILLS 
Risks  Management 
Risks  related  to  the  integration  of  TIM has internal policies and procedures that integrate sustainability issues 
sustainability  issues  within  the  into  company  processes;  the  Corporate  Digital  Communication  &  CSV 
strategic  business  vision  and  with  Projects department oversees the implementation of projects dedicated to 
carrying out activities not in line with  the generation of shared value. In addition, Sustainable Reporting, Monitoring 
& Relationship oversees the relevant legislation and monitors the progress of 
Corporate Social Responsibility. 
sustainability issues. 
  The digital education project for Italy "Operazione Risorgimento Digitale" by 
TIM, launched during the year with the aim of boosting the country's 
  digitization process, promoting the adoption of new technologies by an 
increasingly large pool of citizens (about 1 million) through training courses in 
  over 107 Italian provinces, should be highlighted. Moreover, through TIM 
WCAP, TIM's open innovation hub, the company oversees the theme of Italian 
 
digital transformation, selecting ideas, projects, products and services by 
identifying startups and SMEs with innovative digital solutions with the aim 
 
of integrating the best in TIM's offer and technology. 
 
 
 
  In Brazil, TIM adopts an innovation policy, Educação Conectada, that is 
integrated with other public policies and with the objectives of Brazil's 
In Brazil 
national education program (PNE). A key purpose of the plan is secondary 
Risk related to the lack of integration 
education for which, by the end of 2024, the federal government has set its 
of  the  company's  sustainable 
target to have 85% of the high school adolescents enrolled in secondary 
development  strategy,  company 
school. 
management  generating  problems 
 
relating  to  the  social,  ethical  and 
In 2019, the TIM Institute continued supporting projects consistent with its 
environmental  impacts  of  company 
mission  to  create  and  strengthen  resources  and  strategies  for  the 
activities. 
democratization of science, technology and innovation to promote human 
development in Brazil, with mobile technology as the primary activator.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
47 
 