TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE GROUP 
 
PROTECTION OF VULNERABLE GROUPS (CYBERBULLYING, CHILD PORNOGRAPHY, GAMBLING) 
Risks  Management 
Risks  associated  with  the  The TIM Group – in accordance with current regulations – provides the 
management of activities in the field  customer with a series of tools to protect minors from accessing the sensitive 
of  logic  security  (cyber  security,  content provided, providing constant updating and related communication.  
information/security  system  TIM deploys resources, technologies, processes and tools to prevent and 
tackle “abuse”, i.e. any activity committed in violation of the rules of conduct 
protection), penalties from regulatory 
and the legislation that govern the use of network services, digital systems or 
non-compliance  and  risks  to 
means of communication in general with continuous supervision carried out 
reputation  and  compliance  with 
by the Security Operations Center in collaboration with the involved internal 
relevant  regulations  (Legislative 
departments and with the competent external authorities. 
Decree 231/2001) 
 
In Brazil  
The risk was not deemed significant. 
 
 
 
 
PROMOTING AND SAFEGUARDING HUMAN RIGHTS 
Risks  Management 
Risks of compliance with the relevant  The Group makes grievance mechanisms available to internal and external 
legislation  (Legislative  decree  stakeholders, to be used in case of violations, as expressly required by the 
231/2001)  Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. These mechanisms are 
available on the Group’s websites. Reports may also be sent anonymously. 
In Brazil 
TIM Participações is a member of the Global Compact Network Brazil's 
Risk related to determining corporate 
Human Rights Working group since 2015.  
values and culture not consistent with 
the strategic plan. 
As part of the due diligence process, it uses the Diagnostics questionnaire on 
human rights capabilities (HRCD) developed by the German Global Compact 
 
Network to assess the level of human rights commitment and management 
  in the pertinent departments.  
 
 
 
 
49 
 