TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE GROUP 
 
REDUCING ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND FIGHTING CLIMATE CHANGE 
Risks  Management 
Risks  associated  with  the  TIM, recognizing the importance of identifying and evaluating all the impacts, 
environmental impact of its activity  positive and negative, even potential, that its activities and the products and 
and  the  management  of  energy  services made available to its customers may have on the environment, 
efficiency projects and monitoring of  implements a process of continuous improvement through initiatives and 
projects aimed at minimizing the environmental footprint of the company's 
energy consumption 
activities, customers and stakeholders in general. 
  In terms of energy, TIM is constantly committed to improving its performance 
energy  efficiency,  adopting  purchasing  policies  that  take  account  of 
  environmental issues and proposing innovative technological solutions to 
individuals, companies and government for lowering environmental impact. 
  In this context TIM has equipped itself with an Energy Management System 
developed, implemented and controlled with reference to the ISO 50001 
 
Standard. Every year the company sets itself the objective of reducing 
emissions and energy consumption, despite the continuous development of 
 
new-generation networks, while at the same time increasing the use of 
energy from renewable sources in company processes. Finally, TIM's strategy 
 
for the environment in the energy sector involves management lines that 
  optimist use of energy sources and natural resources. 
 
  TIM  Participações  has  invested  in  renewable  energy  sources  through 
In Brazil  distributed generation projects, including five hydroelectric plants in the state 
Risks associated with failures and/or  of Minas Gerais, and purchasing electricity on the free market.  
inefficiencies in using and managing  The energy efficiency initiatives implemented in 2018 include: the temporary 
or permanent stop of inactive equipment; freecooling, a heat exchange 
energy with resulting problems in the 
system to reduce use of energy and refrigerant gases in air conditioning 
supply  of  services  and  in  the 
equipment; the stop or removal of equipment from a site to save energy and 
environmental impact due to the low 
free space for new projects. 
efficiency of consumption. 
Water consumption is also managed for greater efficiency; for example in Rio 
de Janeiro (RJ), in the district of São Cristóvão, where TIM is developing a 
water reuse project. 
In addition, the environmental policy of TIM establishes principles to reduce 
the quantity of waste produced to a minimum and boost the separation, 
recover and recycling of the waste itself. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
50 
 