TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE GROUP 
IMPACTS OF ELECTROMAGNETIC EMISSIONS 
Risks  Management 
Risks  related  to  compliance  with  The issue of the impact of electromagnetic emissions, given their significant 
health  and  safety  regulations  and  and growing importance in the light of the recent start-up of the 5G 
risks  to  engineering  and  networks, is managed by the TIM Group within the scope of risks related to 
implementation  of  enabling  compliance with current health and safety regulations and to engineering 
and implementation of the enabling infrastructures for innovative solutions 
infrastructures  for  innovative 
and  preparing  and  setting  up  ultra-broadband  and  5G  network 
solutions and preparing and setting up 
infrastructures. 
ultra-broadband  and  5G  network 
The TIM Group oversees every aspect of electromagnetic emissions by: 
infrastructures 
- designing and optimizing the radio access network, ensuring that serious 
 
attention is given to the issue of electromagnetic emissions at every stage 
 
of the equipment life cycle; 
 
- carefully managing the plants throughout their entire life cycle with 
 
systematic  monitoring  of  electromagnetic  emissions  levels  and  in 
 
compliance with current legislation and internal efficiency and safety 
 
standards for the population and workers; 
 
- use of, and constant research into, the latest technological instruments 
 
for checks and controls; 
 
- continuously keeping an eye on legislation by proactively monitoring 
 
possible developments and always acting in compliance with legislation. 
 
 
 
Electromagnetic emissions from radio base stations (RBS) shall be assessed 
In Brazil 
and monitored using methods established by ANATEL resolutions and kept 
Risk related to the lack of integration 
within established limits. In 2018, electromagnetic emission levels were 
of  the  company's  sustainable 
measured at 23.6% of sites. 
development  strategy,  company 
Given its national coverage, TIM Participações has RBSs within 147 protected 
management  generating  problems 
areas,  often  on  hills  or  in  conservation  units,  which  are  periodically 
relating  to  the  social,  ethical  and 
monitored to ensure that the company's operations do not negatively 
environmental  impacts  of  company 
impact upon biodiversity. At the end of 2018, TIM had over 800 active 
activities.  company  emissions 
biosites within the network. Biosites are structures that significantly reduce 
management,  etc.)  and  non-
visual  and  landscape  impact.  In  addition  to  telecommunications 
compliance  with  workplace  safety 
transmission equipment, biosites also cover street lighting and security 
legislation. 
cameras. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
51 
 