TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE GROUP 
FOSTERING THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN INCLUSIVE DIGITAL SOCIETY 
Risks 
Management 
Risks  related  to  the  integration  of  TIM pays particular attention to the issues of inclusivity and valuing diversity, 
sustainability  issues  within  the  for their positive impact on the ability to generate innovation and improve 
strategic  business  vision  and  with  performance, increasing people's productivity and the quality of their working 
carrying out activities not in line with  life. TIM has been engaged in inclusivity since 2009 and was one of the first 
Italian companies to set up an Equity & Inclusion Management program. TIM 
Corporate Social Responsibility. 
is the first Italian company and first telco provider in the world in the Thomson 
 
Reuters Diversity & Inclusion Index, reaching sixth place worldwide in 2018 
 
and 2019.  
 
TIM also works on social digital inclusion, especially in terms of economic 
 
benefits and specific measures for certain categories of customers, such as 
 
deaf, blind or visually impaired customers, customers with low income who 
 
are in a situation of "economic hardship" and "social card" holders. 
 
In addition, TIM guarantees to support customers residing in areas affected 
 
by natural disasters (seismic events, floods), both in the phase of emergency 
  management and in the medium/long term, to protect their needs. 
   
  TIM Participações supports an economically sustainable telecommunications 
In Brazil  policy that enables us to provide society with digital inclusion in a competitive 
Risk related to the lack of integration  environment. We achieve this with policy documents addressed to national 
of  the  company's  sustainable  policymakers  and  contributions  to  public  consultations  promoted  by 
development  strategy,  company  government authorities. 
The Educação Conectada innovation policy in Brazil is integrated with other 
management  generating  problems 
public policies and the goals of the country's National Education Plan (NEP). 
relating  to  the  social,  ethical  and 
TIM acts through the TIM Institute, encouraging and providing education to 
environmental  impacts  of  company 
state school students in science and mathematics that reflects the current 
activities. 
state of knowledge in these fields. 
 
 
 
 
52 
 