TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
ENVIRONMENT 
operational activities of the technical network in Brazil in the States of Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo and Espirito Santo – the 
areas in which the country’s industrial and commercial activities are mostly concentrated – have had ISO 14001 
certification since 2010. TIM Participações' activities are also carried out in accordance with its own environmental policy, 
revised in 2018, which underlines its commitment to reducing waste and using natural resources sustainably. 
[GRI 103-2: Management Approach] [GRI 302] [GRI 305] The Company always undertakes to implement energy efficiency 
programs  and  a  rational  use  of  resources:  the  Energy Management  Procurement  function  operates  within  the 
Procurement department, focusing on energy issues with the mandate to identify and finalize appropriate energy 
efficiency measures in Italy. In addition, together and in coordination with the competent units of the Chief Technology 
Office, it ensures that the planning and implementation of the adopted solutions is consistent with the Company’s 
efficiency plans. The short-term variable remuneration policy (MBO) provides that department heads are assigned 
objectives in line with the Group's business plan and focused on environmental protection issues and the rational use of 
resources. In recognition of its efforts on the energy front, in 2019 TIM was given "Italy in Class A" certification for its 
projects1.This initiative was promoted by MiSE (Italian Ministry of Economic Development) and carried out by ENEA (Italian 
National Agency for New Technologies, Energy and Sustainable Economic Development) to show companies and 
individuals how to use energy more consciously and sensibly.
  In Brazil, energy is a material topic given the continued network expansion. TIM Participações has a centralised 
management area for all electricity, which reports to the Business Support Officer. The Energy and Efficiency area 
includes professionals responsible for controlling and planning electricity consumption, monitoring energy efficiency 
projects and monitoring the development of regulatory and energy procurement issues. In Brazil, since 2018 TIM has 
entered into agreements (Power Purchase Agreements) with specialised companies that implement hydroelectric power 
plants connected to the distribution grid. TIM Participações leases the power plants on 15-year contracts with the 
consequent supply of renewable energy. In 2019, over 350 GWh consumed came from renewable energy sources, around 
50% of consumption. The forecast for 2020 is for an increase in the share of renewable sources to 60% of total 
consumption for TIM Partecipações. 
 
[GRI 103-3: Management Approach] [GRI 302] [GRI 305] The performance of the main Group indicators is shown in the 
table below. For details, see 2019 Results. 2020 and multi-annual targets at the end of this Chapter.  
 
Indicators   Final figures 2019 
Total consumption of electricity procured and produced   ☺ Down 
Total consumption of electricity from renewable sources   ☺ Up 
Total CO emissions   ☺ Down 
2 
Eco-efficiency indicator   ☺ Up  
% of waste recycled   ☺ Constant 
 
 
 
Fight against climate change: risks and opportunities for TIM 
[GRI 201-2] Digitization and dematerialization to achieve energy saving and reduction of CO emissions into the 
  2
atmosphere: TIM solutions and products offer a real opportunity to mitigate climate change. In particular: 
•  the audio/video conferencing services and flexible working reduce the need for people to travel; 
•  online invoicing and payments save paper and production and transport energy and reduce the need to travel to 
make payments; 
•  the services of telemedicine reduce travel for medical appointments; 
                                                                 
1 The certification was obtained in November 2019 by TIM's "Save Energy!" project.in its two declinations Green Decalogue Campaign and 
Green World green field contest. 
55 
 