TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
ENVIRONMENT 
 
Reducing staff travel 
TIM is committed to finding solutions to 
reduce  staff  travel  and  movement.  In 
addition to proposed smart working days, 
TIM provides its employees with “VAI On 
Line” and Smart On Line (launched in 2017) 
audio and video conferencing services, for 
both its own employees and for those of 
Group companies. The use of these services 
increased by 69% in 2019 compared to 
2018. Details as follows: 
•  VAI On Line: 21,995 video conferences held by TIM and other Group companies;  
•  VAI On Line: 56,817 audio conferences held by TIM and other Group companies;  
•  Smart On Line: 193,686 audio/video conferences held by TIM. 
IoT and environmental research 
As a further demonstration of its commitment to the environment, every year TIM invests in research into innovative 
solutions for limiting environmental impact by limiting the consumption of natural resources and energy. These activities 
are detailed in the following paragraphs. 
TIM has also had many patents granted in this area. TIM has begun numerous ICT research projects in the area of the 
Internet of Things (IoT), applied to the world of Smart Cities and of positive environmental impact.  
Smart grid. IoT application for the management of electrical networks in terms of distributed generation and remote 
control. Continuing sharing telecommunication and power distribution network infrastructure with a view to cutting costs 
and reducing their environmental impact.  
Smart water. IoT application for managing water distribution networks through the identification of hidden water leaks. 
To search for leaks and optimize distribution costs, TIM is also experimenting with multi-utility smart metering solutions 
(applications for real time usage monitoring), which cover water, gas and, if necessary, also electricity, based on 
widespread networks like IoT Narrowband1. 
Smart waste. Efficient management of the waste cycle for increasing sorted collection and reducing illegal dumping. The 
fill levels of the various recycling centers are measured in real time and vehicles sent out to empty them only when 
necessary. Result: time and expense are minimized and roadside bins overflowing with municipal rubbish are avoided. 
Other projects. In the field of eco-sustainability, the REPLICATE (Firenze Smart City) and MONICA (Torino Smart City) 
projects are particularly significant.  
The REPLICATE2  project focuses on smart energy, smart mobility and smart waste solutions and the development of IoT 
platforms for managing the distribution of water and waste management in collaboration and partnership with the 
municipality of Florence. It was launched in 2016 and will last for five years.  
The MONICA3  project is focused on urban noise pollution and safety in public life. TIM contributed to the “Torino Smart 
City” project known as SMILE4 focusing on the theme of life & health. Based on input from the SMILE project, the 
Municipality of Turin has drawn up a master plan for Torino Smart City. TIM has signed a Memorandum of Understanding 
with the Municipality which provides for the use of 5G technologies to develop sustainable smart city services. The project, 
which began in July 2017, will be completed by mid-2020. 
 
Consumer Products: TIM eco-friendly  
In order to improve the environmental efficiency of products offered to customers, attention has to be paid to their energy 
aspects to optimist consumption while meeting the needs of the services delivered and applying “design for environment” 
                                                                 
1This solution is based on a new radio interface which can be used either on a portion of the LTE signal band (or on the band separating the 
bands), or independently in portions of the spectrum made available by the release of frequencies. 
2  REnaissance of PLaces with Innovative Citizenship And TEchnologies; part of the European Horizon 2020 program. 
3 Management Of Networked IoT Wearables – Very Large Scale Demonstration of Cultural Societal Applications; part of the European Horizon 
2020 program. 
4 SMart mobILity at the European land borders; part of the European Horizon 2020 program. 
60 
 