TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE GROUP 
Executive Summary 
Due to its size, its extensive and widespread presence and its infrastructural and technological assets, TIM is a "system 
company"; it is fully integrated with the regions and with the social, economic and productive fabric of the countries in 
which it operates. The TIM Group's work has therefore changed over time, to meet the needs of the communities it 
operates in. The current challenge is to use the Group's infrastructure and skills to contribute to a new phase of evolution 
in our society, one that requires us to use technology and work with all the players in the public and private sectors to 
tackle the great environmental and social challenges of the day, speed up reaching the Sustainable Development Goals 
in the UN's 2030 Agenda, and at the same time, prepare for and respond to the risks that spreading technology brings. 
TIM's contribution to sustainability might therefore be better termed a contribution to digital sustainability, which means 
aligning the ICT sector with the UN's global challenges to see how best to seize the opportunities and respond quickly to 
new threats. 
The  Sustainability  Report  explains  in  depth  the  Group's  work  on  environmental,  social  and  governance  topics, 
demonstrating its contribution to reaching the Sustainable Development Goals and the targets it identifies itself as 
priorities. 
 
FIGHTING CLIMATE CHANGE                              
 
The Group is one of the main players in the digital transformation, the profound change in our society made possible by 
ultrabroadband (UBB) networks (FTTx and 5G), resulting from the development of technological enablers like artificial 
intelligence, the Internet of Things (IoT) and advanced analytics. These technologies are driving a radical transformation 
of our society, making it move on from data services to digital solutions, in the most varied fields (for example security, 
entertainment, on the move: electric cars, at work: Industry 4.0, smart city: public services, environmental sustainability, 
health: predictive and personalized medicine).  
TIM has always considered innovation to be a strategic asset and takes great care in governing its individual aspects, from 
its strategic role to responsibility, objectives and policy. With regards to the role itself, in 2019, both technological and 
business-related innovation once again played a key role in responding to the changing technological, market and 
competitive environment. Besides continuing with its existing research and development projects, TIM has launched new 
initiatives, for example for growing co-creation ecosystems such as the IoT Open Lab, a laboratory dedicated to the 
development of IoT solutions, based on technologies that are of key importance from an open innovation perspective. 
In accordance with the Italian Digital Agenda and the relevant EU directives, in 2019, TIM consolidated and rationalized 
its Smart Services offering (with regard to safety, energy efficiency, the environment and digital services within cities) 
with a view to promoting the "smart city" model. This model translates into improved quality of life, delivered by means 
of innovative digital services that can facilitate new forms of collaboration between citizens, businesses and public 
administration bodies, whilst contributing to energy savings. TIM has, for example, formed collaborations with some 
municipal governments to run environmental sustainability projects over several years: REPLICATE (Firenze Smart City), 
MONICA and SMILE (Torino Smart City).  
Besides providing smart services, TIM offers people and businesses eco-friendly products for reducing their environmental 
impact  and  optimizing  the  consumption  needed  to  their  provide  services.  It  applies  design  rules  that  reduce 
environmental impact ("design for environment"), in particular at the production stage e and managing the end-of-life 
of the equipment to reduce electronic or e-waste.  
Even internally, the Group is committed to doing its part. In 2019 alone, its renewable energy use went up by 244%, and 
it worked to get better energy efficiency, reducing CO  emissions by 123 GWh over three years. All suppliers are analyses 
2
to assess their social and environmental risks. 
TIM's contribution is focused on the targets in Goal 7: Affordable and clean energy (targets 7.2, 7.3 and 7.b), Goal 9: 
Industry, innovation and infrastructure (target 9.4), Goal 11: Sustainable cities and communities (targets 11.5 and 11.6), 
Goal 12: Responsible consumption and production (target 12.2: use of natural resources, target 12.5: waste reduction and 
targets 12.6, 12.8 and 12.a: strengthen capacity) and Goal 13: Climate action (targets 13.1, 13.3 and 13.b). 
7 
 