TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE GROUP 
 
 
CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMMUNITY               
 
The TIM Group's strategy concentrates on spreading an inclusive digital culture that enables innovation and economic 
development in communities. In particular, it allows Italy to get over the geographical digital divide, thanks to the 
broadband coverage it gives to 80% of homes on fixed networks and more than 99% of homes with 4G mobile networks, 
even in rural areas. In Brazil, the development of fixed and mobile networks on the one hand and 5G on the other have 
led to an unprecedented acceleration in the telecommunications sector. This is a phenomenon that is opening up new 
possibilities and profoundly changing people's habits, as they become increasingly accustomed to living in a connected 
world.  
But besides the geographical digital divide, there is also a social one. The TIM Group helps spread knowledge of the 
internet and digital technologies to people in society who they tend to be off limits to, thereby helping reduce inequality. 
It does so through joint initiatives with public administration, universities and other players in the public and private 
sectors. In 2019, the Operation Risorgimento Digitale was launched to carry training courses to all 107 provinces in Italy 
(for a total of 20,000 hours of training). Fondazione TIM in Italy and Instituto TIM in Brazil have carried out many cultural 
projects and initiatives, which help spread a culture of innovation among more vulnerable people and update them on 
technology. 
Besides providing enormous opportunities, the digital transformation is also posing risks to human rights. The TIM Group 
is on the front line of containing these risks. Among the main contributions are the initiatives to protect the health, privacy 
and safety of personal data, and on the key topics of cyber security and protecting the most vulnerable categories of data 
(safe use of the internet and fighting cyber bullying and child pornography). 
The main focus of the Group, therefore, is helping reaching the targets in Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth 
(targets 8.2, 8.3 and 8.4: sustainable growth and targets 8.1 and 8.10: inclusion), Goal 9: Industry, innovation and 
infrastructure (targets 9.1, 9.a and 9.c: infrastructure and targets 9.2 and 9.3: sustainable and inclusive industrialization), 
Goal 10: Reduced inequalities (targets 10.1 and 10.2) and Goal 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions (targets 16.9 and 
16.10: protecting human rights), conserving TIM's strong historic link with formal and non-formal training for all 
generations, helping reach Goal 4: Quality education (targets 4.1 and 4.3: formal education, targets 4.4, 4.6 and 4.7: 
developing skills and 4.b: adequate funding). 
 
 
 
CLOSENESS TO OUR PEOPLE AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
 
TIM shows the care it has for the people who work for it by listening to their needs (e.g. the BU Domestic engagement 
survey) and coming up with a plan based on everyone's expectations, as long as they are concrete and measurable. There 
are many initiatives providing continuous training for people, the only way for TIM to support itself in the digital economy. 
In 2020, the TIM Academy platform will be enriched with a training plan on sustainability topics. This aims to guarantee 
ever greater involvement of people in the Group's social and environmental goals. 
TIM supports employee participation in volunteer initiatives, and is particularly attentive to the issue of diversity within 
the company. In 2019, TIM was once again in the Top 100 of the Refinitiv Diversity and Inclusion Index, the most respected 
world ranking for the criterion, at 6th, making it the highest Italian company and highest telecoms company in the world. 
TIM’s place in the Refinitiv Diversity and Inclusion Index confirms the Group’s commitment to equal opportunities, non-
discrimination and inclusion as the basis of its company strategy to improve internal expertise, organizational well-being 
and therefore company performance. Mel 2019 TIM was also in the Top 20 of the Diversity Brand Index which lists the 
brands seen as the most inclusive.  
8 
 