TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE VALUE CHAIN 
Research and development  
In Italy  
 [GRI 103-1: Management Approach] [GRI 203] Innovation - understood as the research and development of innovative 
technologies and services, processes and business models - plays a key role in the Group's ability to keep on top of the 
profound transformations that are coming about as a result of ICT1, as well as being a necessary and driving force in this 
evolution with regard to its customers and the country-specific system, helping to overcome the socio-cultural barriers 
that limit the possibilities of participating in the information society and enjoying the benefits that come with it.  
 
[GRI 103-2: Management Approach] [GRI 203] TIM has always considered innovation to be a strategic asset and takes 
great care in managing the individual aspects thereof, including its strategic role, responsibility, objectives and policy. 
With regards to the role itself, in 2019, both technological and business-related innovation once again played a key role 
in responding to the changing technological, market and competitive environment. This being the case, the Group has 
pursued several avenues of development: 
•  continuing the efforts it initiated in 2016 to strengthen internal lines of innovation, focusing the activities of its 
laboratories and research groups on the fundamental aspects of the evolution of fixed and mobile networks to 5G2 
and ultra-broadband standards based on service platforms and new operating systems; 
•  selecting, accelerating and co-creating innovative ideas, products and services from the world of start-ups3 and small 
and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), in keeping with emerging innovative trends and those of interest to TIM, with 
a view to improving the commercial offering and internal processes and encouraging the growth of the Italian start-
up ecosystem through the TIM corporate accelerator. TIM WCAP (working capital) leverages the principles of ‘Open 
Innovation’ and the five territorial hubs4 (Milan, Bologna, Rome, Naples and Catania) in order to promote a certain 
contamination that not only concerns the world of start-ups but also extends to global ICT partners (such as CISCO) 
and the main Italian universities (such as Federico II in Naples, where the Naples hub has been created); 
•  catalyzing the capacity for innovation on the part of start-ups through TIM WCAP's acceleration programme and 
venture capital (equity) investments on the part of TIM Ventures - TIM's corporate venture capital5. Indeed, TIM WCAP 
launched a ‘call for start-ups’6 and two ‘calls for partners’ in 2018 and held several hackathon7 and contamination 
initiatives at its regional hubs in 2019; 
•  implementing initiatives that enable the growth of co-creation ecosystems such as the IoT (Internet of Things) Open 
Lab - a laboratory dedicated to the development of IoT solutions based on technologies that are of key importance 
to the telco operator from an open innovation perspective.  
[GRI 103-2: Management Approach] [GRI 203] Innovation management is overseen, through various missions, by the 
Technology Architectures & Innovation and engineering functions and involves various internal and external stakeholders: 
•  other areas of the company that might be involved in these issues from time to time, both as internal clients with 
regard to the innovation output solution and as centers of expertise with regard to the issue in question;  
•  partners, both traditional and digital, in the joint go2market8 digital services initiative; 
•  research centers and universities, for the purposes of collaborations and joint projects. [GRI 203-1] In 2019, a number 
of research contracts were signed with nine Italian universities amounting to a total value of 1.3 million euros (further 
information is provided later in this paragraph); 
                                                                 
1Information and Communication Technology. 
2  Acronym for fifth generation mobile technology and standards. 
3 New companies demonstrating high levels of innovation. 
4 Center of an activity, region or network. 
5 TIM Ventures is the company belonging to the TIM Group that invests in corporate venture capital. 
6 Invitation to participate in new initiatives. 
7 The word ‘hackathon’ is a combination of the words ‘hacking’ and ‘marathon’.  During a hackathon, which lasts for a limited period of time 
(ranging from a few hours to a few days), participants must create a usable software program, often based on a certain theme (e.g. an app for 
smartphones). 
8 The strategy of an organization that uses both internal and external resources (e.g. sales force) can be defined with a view to making its 
unique value proposition available to customers and gaining a competitive advantage. 
 
73 
 