TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE VALUE CHAIN 
•  on an international level, a wide range of standardization bodies (including the ETSI1, the ITU2, the CENELEC3 and 
3GPP4, among others), associations (the most notable of which include the GSMA5 and the NGMN6), alliances (such 
as oneM2M7 and BBF8) and telco open communities (such as the ONF9 and CORD10), which play a key role in the 
evolution of the TLC industry/sector with regard to networks, platforms and services, in which TIM is involved through 
partnerships11 with the main stakeholders in the sector. In 2019 in particular, TIM confirmed its interest in joining the 
main standardization bodies and associations with 29 registrations, two more than in 2018, representing a total 
commitment of around a million euros. The two new international bodies of which TIM has become a part are strongly 
linked to the digital transformation process that the company is undertaking with regard to 5G, these being the 5GAA 
(5G Automotive Association), which aims to accelerate and promote the industrialisation of connected mobility 
services, and the O-RAN12 Alliance (Open RAN Alliance) - an initiative involving the world's leading carriers and aimed 
at promoting greater openness and programmability of radio access systems.  
•  on a national level, collaborative relationships have been established with various ministries (including the Ministry of 
Economic Development and the Ministry of Education, University and Research), the European Union and public 
bodies (such as the Italian National Research Council (CNR) and local authorities) for the purposes of implementing 
projects funded through participation in calls for tenders and partnership initiatives. The year 2019 notably saw TIM 
contribute to the design proposal and creation of production lines based on the new Industry 4.0 technology in the 
framework of the Competence Industry Manufacturing 4.0 (CIM 4.0) initiative introduced at the end of 2018 with a 
view to promoting the transfer of technological skills and innovation in production processes, products and business 
models. 
TIM has developed a joint innovation and shared success pathway in conjunction with Huawei and Cisco, as well as signing 
a strategic agreement with Microsoft for the development of artificial intelligence, in addition to the various collaborations 
already in place between the two companies both in Italy and Brazil. Artificial intelligence, with the help of Data Analytics 
and Big Data Advanced Analytics13, is now an essential lever in digital transformation. The collaboration with Microsoft 
will lead to the development of innovative tools for customizing products and services and enriching the TIM offering. 
TIM’s technological evolution is based on the CTO Technology Strategy, which outlines technological strategy in terms of 
guidelines, specific technologies and roadmaps for implementation over a period of several years. The three-year 
technology plan is the Group’s reference document and includes plans for the technological evolution of its various 
subsidiaries. The plan identifies the main exogenous factors that might influence company strategies (regulation, 
standards, suppliers and other operators in the market) and defines both the reference technological architecture and 
the evolution of specific technologies, as well as the company structures involved and the corresponding roadmaps for 
deployment or assessment. Qualitative and/or quantitative objectives correspond to a period of several years and are 
broken down on an annual basis and defined in a way that means they can be objectively measured in compliance with 
                                                                 
1 European Telecommunications Standard Institute. 
2 International Telecommunication Union. 
3 European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardization. 
4 3rd Generation Partnership Project. 
5 GSM Association. 
6 Next Generation Mobile Networks. 
7 oneM2M aims to  develop technical specifications that meet the need for a common M2M (machine to machine, i.e. technologies and services 
that allow for the automatic transfer of information with little or no human interaction) service level that can be easily incorporated into various 
hardware and software solutions and that can be relied upon to connect the myriad of devices out in the field with M2M application servers 
around the world. 
8 The Broadband Forum focuses on developing the standards that shape current and future cable & wireless, transport, border and core networks 
to support domestic, business and converged broadband services with the aim of unlocking new markets using new technologies and standards 
for advanced broadband networks. 
9 The Open Led Consortium, which transforms technical networks into agile platforms for service delivery. 
10 The CORD (Central Office Re-architected as a Datacenter) platform uses SND, NFV and Cloud technologies to create agile data centers for the 
edge of the network. CORD integrates multiple open source projects to offer an agile, open, programmable and native platform for network 
operators to create innovative services. CORD has also proven to be a comprehensive integrated platform that includes everything required to 
create an operational data center complete with integrated service capabilities, all based on basic hardware that uses the latest native cloud 
design principles. 
11 Close cooperation, generally between two or more companies, for the purposes of implementing joint projects. 
12 RAN - Radio Access Network. 
13  Big data analytics is the process whereby big data is gathered (from the Internet of Things, smart cars, social networks, etc.) and analyses to 
obtain useful information for the business. Big data analytics techniques make it possible to provide companies with new information on issues 
such as the market context, competition and customer behavior to improve customer experience strategies, etc. 
 
74 
 