TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE VALUE CHAIN 
the relevant standards governing quality (ISO9001), environmental factors (ISO14001) and operational processes of 
innovation; TIM’s processes are generally based on the Telemanagement Forum's E-Tom reference standard1.  
 
 [GRI 203-1] In 2019 TIM committed a total of around 1,300 employees to working on technological innovation and 
engineering activities in 2019, representing an overall investment of 1,113 million euros, for the S.p.A. 
 
[GRI 103-3: Management Approach] [GRI 203] Activities for the future of mobility and networks: initiatives for 5G 
 
TIM switched on the new 5G network in Sanremo in February 2019 as main sponsor to the 69th Festival della Canzone 
Italiana song festival and also introduced the new mobile network to stadiums in Rome and Udine, doubling the 
performance of the 4.5G mobile network and laying the foundations for fans to enjoy the new digital experience of 
football matches in 5G.  
In the same month, TIM introduced ten start-ups developed within the Group's TIMWCAP open innovation incubator at 
the Mobile World Congress 2019 in Barcelona. The ten projects spanned various fields of application, including 
entertainment and new e-sports, personal finance, digital commerce and mobile payment solutions right through to IoT 
solutions based on artificial intelligence.  
Also in February 2019, TIM launched a 5G infrastructure partnership with Vodafone with a view to optimizing investment 
in 5th-generation networks.  
In May, meanwhile, the first innovative 5G service tests on using drones and rover-type vehicles controlled remotely via 
the mobile network for the purposes of regional control and monitoring were launched as part of an agreement signed 
between the Liguria Region, the Municipality of Genoa, Liguria Digitale, Ericsson and TIM for the Digital Lab 5G. 
TIM officially launched 5G in Rome on July 5, 2019 and announced the cities that were already covered (Naples, Rome 
and Turin), along with development plans, commercial offerings and the initial services already available for consumers 
and business customers.   
During the summer of 2019, and thanks to TIM, the Jova Beach Party was the first music tour of the 5G era in Italy to use 
drones, virtual reality applications, 360° panoramic live video and multiview (multiple systems on a single screen) on 5G-
enabled smartphones; all set up in demo corners right on Italy’s main beaches. 
In late July, TIM brought 5G to Naples and, in early August, signed a memorandum of understanding with the City of Turin 
that strengthened their partnership with a view to using 5G to make the Piedmontese capital a pioneering model of a 
digital city. The agreement notably concerned the joint development of operations and solutions in the digital field 
together within the Turin region for the purposes of creating innovative applications for the smart city. 
TIM turned on 5G at the 40th Rimini Meeting in August 2019 and introduced the digital services of the future in an area 
dedicated entirely to 5G solutions and innovative start-ups, from smart benches for the smart city model to virtual reality 
sightseeing tools and even digital entertainment applications.  
In November 2019, TIM and the City of Turin introduced Europe’s first 5G Edge Cloud live network with connected drones 
in Turin, enabling the big data collected from IoT platforms to be processed in an integrated manner and analyses by 
artificial intelligence systems, consequently making the 5G Edge Cloud central to developing and deploying Smart City 
digital services, including public safety and driverless cars, environmental monitoring and Industry 4.0. The 5G Edge Cloud 
network guarantees an ultra-high bandwidth and low latency and allows extremely high amounts of data to be combined 
and processed, providing secure digital services of an extremely high quality that respect customer privacy and offer 
greater agility and flexibility when it comes to configuring services and applications according to the typical cloud logic. 
5G also took center stage at the global 5GAA event in Turin, where TIM presented a series of exclusive live demos of 
connected driving aids designed to ensure safe, comfortable driving. The highway demos showcased at the event were 
produced in conjunction with the City of Turin and other partners, and they were part of the Smart Roads project and 
included the following: cameras and sensors on pedestrian crossings (Road Site Units) connected to the 5G network to 
indicate the presence of a pedestrian crossing to vehicles in the area; on-board units (OBUs) positioned on a bicycle and 
a vehicle with the ability to display messages on the cyclist's smartwatch and on the vehicle's display in order to indicate 
their respective positions and increase attention levels.  
                                                                 
1 The Business Process Framework (eTOM) can be considered an operational model structure for telecommunications service providers; the model 
describes the required business processes, defines the key elements and the way in which they should interact. eTOM is a standard managed by 
the TM Forum - an association for service providers and their suppliers in the telecommunications and entertainment sectors. 
75 
 