TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE VALUE CHAIN 
 
IP Multimedia Network Evolution. In 2017, TIM launched VoLTE (high definition voice over LTE services on the market, 
enabling call services without the need to pass via legacy circuit switching technology, also benefiting the use of 100 
approved smartphone models. In late December 2019, this service was enabled in 3,401 cities (Geomarketing report data).  
 
For Network Function Virtualization (NFV) and Software Defined Networks (SDN), some initiatives were developed, such 
as the creation of the NFV program of TIM Participações, that included four work teams (according to the NFV logical 
domains and areas of expertise), in order to determine technical requirements, infrastructure projects, operating tables 
of VNF, open laboratory specifications and the reference architecture conforming to the NFV ETSI standard1. In this 
context, the VAS2 Messaging Consolidation was the first VNF3 implemented on the commercial network, followed by the 
IMS platform and roaming services, according to the NFV principle. In December 2019, other network functions, such as 
PCRF (Policy and Charging Rules Function4)  DRA (Diameter Routing Agent5), STP (Signaling Transfer Point6), Roaming 
Platform, HSS-FE (Home Subscriber Server Front End)7 and EPC8, were operating as VNF. Different approaches to SDN 
were also covered in preliminary studies, allowing for complete orchestration and the definition of the cloud environment. 
A reduction in CapEx/OpEx9, the quicker time-to-market, optimization and innovative actions are the main drivers for the 
adoption of these new network approaches. As an alternative to hypervisor VMWare10, TIM Participações acquired the 
Red Hat Openstack Suite as the VIM for its NFV-I. This acquisition will improve the reach of data centers up to the EDGE, 
enabling new services based on Edge Computing11 and MEC12. 
 
[GRI 103-3: Management Approach] [GRI 203] Projects involving a reduction in energy consumption 
The expansion of “4G RAN sharing”, in partnership with other Brazilian mobile operators, aims to define the architectural 
requirements, technical assumptions and specifications for the “LTE RAN sharing13” solution, optimizing the network 
resources and costs14. Another factor behind this initiative concerns coverage and timing issues relative to regulatory 
obligations (many cities will have to have a 2.6 GHz spectrum coverage in a short period of time, along with the 
implementation of numerous sites). Initially, tests were conducted in a controlled environment (Innovation Lab) and the 
solution was based on MOCN15, standardized by the 3GPP16. A second test was then launched to evaluate other technical 
issues. At present, this is the largest RAN sharing agreement in the world, and provides 4G services to main Brazilian 
cities. 
                                                                 
1 European Telecommunications Standards Institute. 
2Value Added Services. 
3 Virtual Network Function. 
4 PCRF (policy and charging rules department), which supports the identification of service data flows, the adoption of policies and charges based 
on the flow. It offers a complete solution enabling a supplier of new generation services to offer several use scenarios to better check services and 
align inflows with their own resources. 
5 DRA (diameter routing agent) is a fundamental element of the 3G or 4G network (like LTE), that provides real time routing functions to ensure 
that messages are routed via the correct elements of a network. 
6 STP (signal transfer point) is used in an SS7 network (standard set of signaling protocols used in Public Switched Telephone Networks worldwide 
to handle calls) or CC7. STPs transfer SS7 messages between interconnected nodes (terminal signaling points), based on information contained 
in the fields of SS7 addresses. 
7 The front-end of the domestic user server (HSS-FE) has a central role in managing user data in the Evolved Packet Core (EPC) subsystem and 
the IP Multimedia Core Network (IMS). 
8 The fundamental duty of the Evolved Packet Core is to provide IP connectivity to the terminal both for data and voice services. 
9 Capital expenditures and operational expenditures. 
10 A hypervisor, also known as a virtual machine monitor, is a process that creates and manages virtual machines (VM). A hypervisor enables a 
host computer (computer or other device connected to a computer network that may offer resources, services and information applications to 
users or other network nodes)) to support several VM guests (software component of a virtual machine, an independent element of an operating 
system and the relative software and associated information) sharing its resources, such as memory and processing, virtually. 
11 This is the processing of information at the network edges, where data are produced. The main benefits from using edge computing 
technologies are a reduction in  processing latency, that enables real time responses, and band saving, sending information already processed 
and thus of smaller dimensions to the data center. 
12 Multi-access Edge Computing - connection technology used in 5G networks. 
13 Sharing of the “Radio Access Network”. 
14 The infrastructure costs are mainly associated with the introduction of new radiating systems and other electronic components, infrastructure 
of passive sites and transport networks; therefore, the sharing of resources supplied by LTE RAN means a significant optimization in costs for 
telecommunications operators. 
15 The Multiple Operator Core Network (main network for several operators), enables spectrum sharing; with continual traffic requests towards 
4.5/5G, MOCN technology and spectrum sharing are important enabling factors, considered by the regulatory authorities. 
16The 3rd Generation Partnership Project. 
 
79 
 