TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE VALUE CHAIN 
[GRI 103-2: Management Approach] [GRI 203-1] [GRI 203-2] TIM’s ultra-broadband network 
Starting from 2012, TIM has been developing its ultra-broadband1 network with the aim of bringing high speed 
connectivity services with fiber optics to most of the Italian territory and contribute to the economic growth of the country. 
TIM chose to implement two different NGAN network architectures for the supply of high speed services with fiber optics: 
• FTTC (Fibre To The Cabinet) architecture. The fibre optic cables leave the exchange and go to the street cabinet, where
an active device is installed (ONU) that transfers data traffic on twisted double copper cables to reach the
modem/routers at the customer’s site. The FTTC network, thanks to eVDSL2 technology, can reach speeds of 200
Megabits per second and, with further technological developments, possibly up to 300 Mb/s;
• FTTH (Fibre To The Home) architecture. The fibre optic cables leave the exchange and arrive directly inside apartments
(through the so-called “vertical”). At the customer site, an active device is installed (ONT) that transfers data traffic
from the fibre optics to the modem/routers. The FTTH network technology GPON3 can reach speeds of one gigabit
per second and is developed in areas already covered by FTTC technology, so as to ensure to customers choice in
terms of connection speed.
In order to deal with the digital divide that has arisen in the so-called marginal areas of Italy, which would otherwise 
remain excluded from the mainstream plans of telecommunications operators due to the low profitability of investments, 
between 2005 and December 2019, TIM implemented a programme of investments allowing ADSL coverage (gross4  
coverage > 70%) to be provided for 7,672 municipalities in total. 
[GRI 103-3: Management Approach] [GRI 203-1] As of December 2019, TIM, in Italy, had activated the ADSL service in 
around 9,700exchanges, including 8,580 with optic fiber carriers. Alongside its plan to extend coverage, TIM has launched 
an additional plan to expand the active network5, where necessary, to guarantee full usability of the service by customers 
and the development of digital inclusion 
. 
1 Also known as NGAN, Next Access Generation Network. 
2Enhanced Very High-speed Digital Subscriber Line. 
3Gigabit Passive Optical Network. 
4 Official TIM coverage data refer to the technical coverage of the telephone population (in terms of 64 kbit/s equivalent lines) gross of areas that 
cannot technically be served due to the characteristics of the copper access network (presence of digital devices such as multiplexes - MPX, 
Remote Concentration Units (RCUs), Multiplexes with Fibre Optic Backhauling - MD48, excessive distance from the exchange, etc.). 
5 The plan consists of actions to ensure full availability of the service by customers by expanding the capacity of equipment used, in terms of both 
user ports and bandwidth available on the Internet. The technical term for this is desaturation of DSLAM equipment, performed either in advance 
or once specific broadband quality and availability thresholds are exceeded. 
83 