TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE VALUE CHAIN 
[GRI 203-2] TIM Participações supports the development of technological partnerships for initiatives focused on social and 
business applications. Through its open innovation program, the company invests in initiatives designed to promote the 
acquisition and exchange of knowledge with universities; the project with the Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de 
Janeiro (PUC) on blockchain is an example of this, as is that with Inatel1 for the development of a smartcity program 
based on Nb-IoT technology2. TIM Participações is also working more closely with the Cubo Itaú innovation center to 
promote co-creation with startups, and has launched a partnership with the Open D'Or initiative for health research.  
The company plays an active role in the development of the IoT ecosystem for rural, smartcity and health solutions, and 
is taking part in four IoT pilot projects selected by BNDES (Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social)3. In 
addition, the company is also a mentor in the Embrapa initiative4, for the Ideas 4milk program.  
TIM Participações is dedicated to finding solutions for flexible rural connectivity, and has developed a series of MVPs5 with 
CPQD6 in rural and industrial areas to test Nb-IoT technology; it has formally received a national innovation award for 
these.  
In addition, the company has also recently participated in the TIP - Telecom Infra Project, the goal of which is to develop 
innovative and sustainable solutions for the expansion of the telecommunications infrastructure worldwide, working with 
telecom operators, suppliers and integrators in collaboration with Facebook. Today, via TIM LAB, the Network function is 
home to one of the seven TIP Community Labs that exist worldwide, and has performed tests on optical solutions with a 
view to facilitating the acceleration of transportation networks, enabling the connection of cellular antennas.  
In 2019, TIM Participações supported discussions regarding 5G technology using the concept of Living Labs, a physical 
space where users, public and private players and the academy can come together to discuss, share knowledge and 
collaborate in order to create the next generation of 5G solutions; this new technology will be used to fill the gaps that 
still exist with regard to digital inclusion, providing solutions that improve daily life and well-being in a host of sectors, 
including health, safety, city "management" and rural manufacturing. 
 
[GRI 103-2: [Management Approach] [GRI 203] [GRI 203-1] [GRI 203-2] The principal objectives to increase Italian 
geographical digital inclusion in TIM Participações for 2021 are shown in the following table. 
Brazil 2022 Targets –Geographic Digital Inclusion   
Indicator  Actual figure 2019  Target 2021 
FTTH (millions of families)  2.3  ➢  4 
 
The target related to 4G coverage set by TIM Participações is of 3,735 cities (94.86% of the urban population) at the end 
of 2020 and of 3,936 cities (95.64% of the urban population) at the end of 2021. The adjustment of the 2020 target was 
determined by the update of the perimeter of coverage and budget strategy of the technical network. At the end of 2019, 
4G coverage reached 94% of the urban population, or 3,477 cities.  
 
Digital inclusion in society 
 
[GRI 103-2: Management Approach] [GRI 203] Operation Digital Risorgimento  
Operation Digital Risorgimento is a digital education project for Italy, designed to drive the digitization of the country, and 
promote the adoption of concrete tools by a growing number of citizens. The initiative complies with the Digital Republic 
Manifesto promoted by the Special Government Commissioner for the fulfillment of the Digital Agenda, and has obtained 
the support of the Italian representative of the European Commission and of ANCI7. It involves more than 400 trainers, 
who will be tasked with developing a program of 20 thousand hours of lessons, which will be delivered through training 
courses in all 107 Italian provinces, with a view to teaching more than a million people about the internet and the potential 
                                                                 
1 Instituto Nacional de Telecomunicações (National Institute of Telecommunications). 
2 Narrowband - Internet of Things. 
3 Banco di Sviluppo Economico e Sociale (Bank for Economic and Social Development), the leading development bank in Brazil. 
4Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuária (Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation), a Brazilian research corporation affiliated with the 
Brazilian Ministry of Agriculture. 
5 Most Valuable Player, i.e. the player who has achieved the best performance in a tournament or game. 
6 Centro de Pesquisa e Desenvolvimento em Telecomunicações ((the Brazilian Research and Development Center in Telecommunications). 
7 Associazione Nazionale Comuni Italiani (National Association of Italian Municipalities). 
85 
 