TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE VALUE CHAIN 
network1). The concession is valid for the same duration as their ISEE certificate (15 January of the year following 
issue) and the request must be renewed annually; 
•  “social card” holders. On its own initiative, TIM gives these customers a reduction on the telephone service subscription 
amount (14.69 euros/month including VAT). The benefit is valid for one year and is automatically renewed on 1 
January of each year. In this case, these benefits cannot be combined with each other and the customer can request 
only one2. 
In addition, TIM guarantees to support customers residing in areas affected by natural disasters (seismic events, floods), 
ensuring business continuity both in the phase of emergency management and in the medium/long term, to protect their 
needs.   
 
[GRI 103-2: Management Approach] [GRI 203] [GRI 203-2] In Brazil, TIM Participações has continued to promote 
commercial offers to encourage the spread of the mobile web, particularly among the poorer classes. This relates to 
offers with reduced rates, particularly suited to promoting the broadening of sociocultural digital inclusion, for example, 
INFINITY WEB, LIBERTY WEB and LIBERTY WEB Rural (offer in the rural areas of the states of Rio de Janeiro, Espirito 
Santo, Paranà and Santa Catarina).  
Furthermore, the Data Connections project - required by ANATEL of operators who purchased the frequencies detailed 
in the Bidding On Notes No. 004/2012 (e.g. Claro, Oi, TIM and Vivo) - guarantees cover of rural areas of Brazil, including 
public schools, in accordance with the division between operators. TIM guarantees this service in the states of Rio de 
Janeiro, Espirito Santo, Paranà and Santa Catarina (from January 2018 data download3 at 1 mbps and upload at 256 
kbps). In April 2019, TIM Participações received a new list of 4,455 public schools, which is its current commitment. In 
December  2019,  the  project  was  80%  complete.  Further  information  is  available  at  the  link: 
anatel.gov.br/consumidor/telefonia-fixa/atendimento-rural . 
 
 
 
   
                                                                 
1 General Telephone Network. 
2 Customers holding social cards, in compliance with the Ministry of the Economy and Finance Decree of September 16, 2008.  
3 Megabits (million bits) Per Second. Kbps stands for kilo (thousand) bits per second. 
87 
 