TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE GROUP 
NOTE ON METHODOLOGY 
Scope and criteria 
[GRI 102-45] The Consolidated Disclosure of Non-Financial Statement (hereinafter “Statement” or “Sustainability
Report”) complies with the obligations laid down in Italian Legislative Decree 254/2016 on the disclosure of non-financial 
information. This Statement – which is its Sustainability Report and is distinct from the Group Report on Operations – is 
the result of the commitment to inform its stakeholders of its performance and results in the field of sustainability, as in 
previous years. Pursuant to Legislative Decree 254/2016, the Statement describes the management approach, policies 
and risks generated and/or run in relation to the five areas set out in that decree (environmental, social, staff, human 
rights and fighting active and passive corruption).  
[GRI 102-46] The Statement contains data and information referring to the Company TIM S.p.A. and its fully consolidated
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2019 (hereinafter “the TIM Group” or “the Group”), as presented in the Annual Financial 
Report. The environmental performance data are presented with some limitations – consisting of European and American 
entities subsidiaries of Telecom Italia Sparkle S.p.A – with respect to the Group's perimeter and the entities with fewer 
than 30 employees. These limitations are not important to understand the Company’s activities, performance, results or 
the impact produced by the Group. 
[GRI 102-47] The Report is based on a multi-stakeholder approach involving the joint analysis of actions taken in respect
of the main stakeholders with whom the Company interacts. For details of the material topics see the relevant paragraph. 
[GRI 102-50] [GRI 102-51] [GRI 102-52] The 2019 Sustainability Report, prepared annually over the calendar year, 
respects the same deadlines as the Group Annual Financial Report.  
[GRI 102-10] [GRI 102-48] During 2019 no significant changes in the scope of consolidation were recorded (it should be
noted that in December 2019 the sale of the holding in Persidera S.p.A. was finalized, while in October 2019 the merger 
by incorporation of Noverca s.r.l. with TIM S.p.A. took place).Data relating to previous years is provided for comparative 
purposes only, in order to allow an assessment of the dynamic trend of the Group’s activities over the medium term.  
Note that information relating to “Fondazione TIM” and “Instituto TIM”, entities not included within the Group’s 
consolidation scope, represents a qualitative element which is useful in order to understand the attention paid to the 
social context. 
[GRI 102-54] The Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Standards of
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (In accordance-comprehensive option). In addition, the document takes into 
consideration the process recommended by the AA1000APS principles (inclusivity, materiality and correspondence). 
Reference to the GRI disclosures are reported in the text highlighted with the symbol [GRI N.].
The Sustainability Report is drawn up according to a system of indicators (KPI - Key Performance Indicators) which 
measure the company’s performance and the degree of achievement of objectives previously established for areas in 
which the Company has major impact.  
The KPIs are defined on the basis of: 
• the analysis of the GRI, an international organization which develops universally applicable guidelines for the drafting
of sustainability reports;
• the demands received from stakeholders;
• the questionnaires sent out by the leading rating agencies for the purpose of admission to the stock market
sustainability indexes;
• the experience the Company has gained in the sustainability field over more than 20 years.
The KPIs - mainly those relating to environmental data - are managed on a dedicated application system (BPC) that uses
the same platform used for financial reporting and control.
In terms of internal auditing of the contents presented, the Company has set up a system with: 
→→ dedicated Operating Rules, which define the roles, responsibilities and procedures to be followed by Group companies 
in order to ensure adequate management and reporting of non-financial information; 
10 