TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE VALUE CHAIN 
 
•  [GRI 404-2]  Managerial Development: with the aim of identifying and enhancing current and future Company 
managerial assets through a series of ad hoc processes and plans to assess the potential future usability of staff in 
managerial roles. In addition, to “protect” the staff base with skills which are critical and/or exposed to “market risk”, 
particularly young graduates hired by the Company in the last seven years, personalised paths with remuneration 
measures and valuable training initiatives have been defined and put in place. When filling organizational positions, 
TIM favors internal promotions identified using the succession planning system: each potential internal candidate’s 
suitability is assessed both for filling specific organizational roles and for their growth towards more complex roles. 
Recourse to the external market is made for specific positions of particular corporate interest, considered "core" but 
difficult to cover with internal resources. 
 
[GRI 404-3] Percentage of employees receiving periodic performance and professional development reviews 
  2019  2018  2017 
Domestic BU  97.9%  99.9%  99.7% 
Brazil BU  97.8%  98.0%  94.5% 
 
 
•  [GRI 404-2] Self-engagement Map (SEM): in 2019, this new assessment tool, that detects the level of engagement of 
the individual, has been applied to target TIM S.p.A. millennials (approximately 300 people) by registering a 
redemption level of 100%. 
•  Skill Assessment: is an online assessment tool, which makes it possible to focus – in a very short time and with large 
numbers – on a picture of the population in terms of skills, knowledge and motivation, useful for the timely detection 
of training needs in support of organizational changes and changes in business skills. Skill Assessment projects in 2019 
involved around 1,500 people in the Chief Technology and Innovation Office and Procurement. Mapping of 5G and 
Cloud skills in the professional roles impacted by the new technology in both commercial and technical areas 
(involving about 2,800 people) has also begun. 
Development and skill activities in Brazil  
[GRI 404-2] [GRI 404-3] In 2019, in alignment with the Group approach and skills model, TIM Brasil implemented 
various programs and initiatives to support skills evolution, people development and employee engagement. 
 
•  Onboarding programs: Also considering the high turnover ratio of the Brazilian labour market, TIM Brasil focus on 
boarding processes has been highly maintained. In 2019, the “Evolution” training program introduced a new 
onboarding approach for sales force employees and managers as well. 
•  Performance Management: TIM Brasil implemented its 2019 performance management cycle, involving the whole 
company, starting introducing a customized and differentiated approach for different areas of the Company, and also 
introducing a new innovative tool “Mais Feedback” to promote and encourage continuous feedback culture. 
•  Managerial Development: TIM Brasil Succession system has started to be updated in the 4Q 2019 in order to align the 
high rate of managerial turnover and to evaluate readiness and development gaps. In 2019, TIM Brasil continued 
favoring internal managerial succession (around 60% of successions have been identified within the internal 
workforce) in alignment with its Recruiting Policies and before resorting to the external market. 
•  Internal & External Recruiting: TIM Brasil recruiting policy continued enabling internal recruiting opportunities as part 
of its HR practices, achieving in 2019 the goal of 40% of overall (employees + managers) vacancies coverage with 
internal workforce rotation. 
 
   
95 
 