TIM Sustainability Report 2019 
THE VALUE CHAIN 
Training 
 
[GRI 103-3: Management Approach] [GRI 404] [GRI 404-2] The transformation of the TLC industry towards digital 
company models, the technological evolution of infrastructure and market challenges linked to the development of new 
digital and innovative services are all part of an employment market undergoing profound transformation. At the TIM 
Academy, systems and methods of acquiring, disseminating, sharing and managing knowledge were strengthened and 
developed in 2019 to encourage organizational learning and improve skills in the changing technological and business 
context. 
In August 2019 an Expansion Contract was signed with the trade unions and the Ministry of Labour, under which all TIM 
employees will be involved in a training and retraining plan broken down into individual projects, so they can acquire new 
and wider technical and professional skills. 
 
Training Program 
One of the pillars of the People's Plan is a continuous training program to support the digitization process and update 
skills. 
The main areas of activity are: 
•  Digital skills development 
•  Re-skilling and internalisation 
•  Management education 
•  Language training  
•  Institutional and corporate culture 
•  Training plan for young staff: 
In keeping with the identified program definition drivers1, the TIM Academy platform, which is always available with multi-
device access, presents learning plans that are customized to the person and role, with an open training offer with guided 
self-learning courses on specialised skills and professions. 
Digital skills development 
TIM Academy developed a digital course on target population for all Group employees. The latter began by completing a 
self assessment of their knowledge and were then offered a training course certified by the EU's DigComp standard.2 The 
project ended in March 2019, having trained about 30,000 people and awarded more than 15,000 "open badges".  
The project "Technological and Business Scenarios - The Gigabit society" has been launched with an initial online module 
on the "agile" methodologies and new organizational logistics necessary for the effective management of innovation in 
the company. 
 
Re-skilling and internalisation 
Wholesale Operations and Caring courses were introduced in order to adapt the role with a focus on strengthening new 
skills both in terms of technology/market/products/services and aptitudes required by market evolution.  
Training projects have been launched to support the internalisation of the following roles: On-field technician in 
Wholesale Operations and ICT Control Room and customer supervision in Chief Revenue Office and Network & Service 
Engineering and application testing and management in Chief Technology and Innovation Office. 
In addition, the mapping of 5G skills (Skill Assessment) in the professional functions and roles impacted by the new 
technology in both commercial and technical areas has been carried out. 
  
 
                                                                 
1 Which are:  
• re-qualification and the enhancement of professional skills;  
• development of digital skills of the entire company population;  
• evolution of managerial profiles. 
2 The DigComp model is a common European reference framework for the development of digital expertise. 
96 
 