WE DISTRIBUTE BRANDS  
THAT WE BELIEVE IN
Under Armour is a leading US innovator, marketer and  Barts is an Amsterdam-based brand, specialising in a wide range 
distributor of branded performance athletic apparel,  of hats, scarves and bags for winter and summer seasons. 
footwear and accessories.  We’ve been distributing Barts in Italy since 2005.
 
In 2016, we started working with Under Armour to 
help it expand in Italy. We have now opened 7 Under  Since 1998, X-BIONIC® and X-SOCKS® have been the leader 
Armour shops in Italy.  in technical sportswear. They’ve unified Swiss engineering 
and Italian production, redefining the world of functional 
sportswear. The two brands take inspiration from nature,  
Julbo are experts in sun protection for high-risk  using technical solutions to transform sweat into energy.  
environments, developing technical lenses and  We start their distribution in Italy in 2018 and Austria  
frames that meet everyone’s needs. We’ve been  from 2019.
distributing Julbo in Italy since 2013. 
Smith makes innovative, durable and superior eyewear and 
Based in Austria, Fischer has been developing,  goggles for a wide range of sports – biking, motocross, skiing, 
marketing and distributing first-class Alpine and  snowboarding, surfing, skateboarding, and wakeboarding. 
Nordic skiing equipment since 1924. We’ve been  We’ve been distributing Smith in Italy since 2009.
distributing Fischer in Italy since 2013.
8
1
0 Spyder is a US-based manufacturer of high-end specialised 
2
RT  Speedo is the world’s leading swimwear and  skiing apparel. It’s also the official supplier for the US Olympic 
O
EP swimming accessories brand.  Ski Team. We’ve been distributing Spyder in Italy since 2015.
R
Y 
LIT We started working with Speedo in 2007. Now, we 
ABI distribute Speedo in seven countries – Italy, Austria, 
N
AI Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, Poland and 
T
US Slovakia. Together,  we’ve learned and achieved a 
S
 P lot – and we hope to help them go even further in our 
U
RO territories.
G
P 
L
A
R
E
B
O
3 4
1 1