IMPROVING WORKING CONDITIONS
MAKING BETTER TEXTILE  
FACTORIES WITH FAIR WEAR 
FOUNDATION
Back in 2013, we chose to partner with the most rigorous  How Fair Wear Foundation works
Fair Wear Foundation (FWF) is an independent, non-profit 
labour conditions expert in textiles that we know of:  
organization that aims to improve labour conditions in the 
Fair Wear Foundation. This helps us ensure that we’re  
textile industry. 
always putting the wellbeing of our people first.
Fair Wear Foundation represents the ideas and principles of  It performs and shares research on workplace-related issues, 
all parts of the industry – business, workers and civil society.  provides a platform for open exchange of information with 
This means it can take a holistic and systematic approach  other brands and stakeholders, and has available local teams 
to improving working conditions. They don’t just audit our  who carry out worker trainings, seminars, and audits. After 
factories – they also verify that we walk our talk through   each factory audit, a corrective action plan (CAP) is made  
the yearly Brand Performance Check. The results are then  and shared with management, and a timeline for 
published both on their website and our own website. improvements is set. Another important part of FWF's work  
is to help us handle worker complaints.
18 In 2017, Fair Wear Foundation gave us FWF Leader status.  
0
2
RT  It’s only given to brands who are “doing exceptionally well and  Partnering with FWF is a big commitment. Every year, it 
O
EP operating at an advanced level” and “showing best-practices on  reviews our work to see whether we're implementing our 
R
Y 
T complex issues”. This tells us we’re going in the right direction.  code of conduct in an effective way. It asesses our internal 
LI
BI
A FWF’s requirements get higher every year, and we’re continually  organization and processes, our approach and handling of 
N
AI
T being challenged to try harder. It's tough, but that's also what  the year's main events, worker complaints and audits, and 
S
U
 SP we like about them. Because in the end we all want to see a more  gives us a rating in a report which is published on their website.
U
RO fair and equal textile industry.
G
LP  Read the results in our latest Brand Performance Check
A
R
E For more info visit  www.fairwear.org
B
O
8 9
3 3