HOW WE MONITOR WORKING CONDITIONS
  First screening   Regular factory visits
All potential suppliers need to go through a human   Our quality controllers regularly visit production sites. They’re experts  
rights screening process and fulfil our basic criteria.  on our social compliance requirements – and the eyes on the ground,  
monitoring the working conditions in person.
  Clear rules
All suppliers have to commit to our Code of Conduct.   Factory training
Information is power. We set up training sessions in many of our factories 
that focus on labour rights, social dialogue between management 
  Audits and workers, or special issues like anti-harassment or age verification 
All suppliers have to agree to audits from third parties at least every three years. 
depending on the needs in a certain country or factory.
These are conducted in the local language by teams of three experts to carry out 
a comprehensive and in-depth evaluation: worker interviews, health and safety 
check and thorough document inspection (payrolls, safety certifications, time    Complaints mechanism
records). Afterwards, findings are shared with the factory and a report on the   The Worker Information Sheet, listing workers' international rights,  
findings is shared with us. is posted in all our factories, has an anonymous hotline number or an email 
address. Workers can use these to report problems. It’s managed by FWF 
and they forward the complaints to us so that we can solve them directly 
  Worker interviews with the factory.
We want to make sure that workers have a chance to tell us how they are doing. 
So as a part of audits, a team of independent local experts interviews workers 
  Follow up
about factory conditions. This is done away from the premises to avoid biased 
We continue checking in with each factory until an action plan is 
feedback or retaliation against the interviewees. Workers know that their 
8 completed and problems have been solved.
1 commitments are anonymous so that they can speak freely.
0
2
T 
R
O
P
RE   Corrective action plan    Transparency
TY  We turn the results from the audit into an action plan: a to-do list of specific  Every year, we publish a detailed report on what we've done to improve 
LI
BI findings of things that need to be improved, with concrete targets and a clear  working conditions. Here's our latest Social Report.
A
N
AI timeline. Things like a missing emergency exit sign over the entrance have to  
T
S be corrected immediately, but problems of worker overtime related to production 
U
S    New audit
 P planning can be a longer-term goal. Together with our suppliers, we work out  
U At the end of each three-year period, we conduct a new audit on our  
O a plan on how to solve these problems and how we can support them.
GR factories. This builds on our previous findings and confirms progress.
P 
L
A
R
E
B
O
0 1
4 4