CHRISTMAS GIVING 
Each year, during our Christmas dinners,  
we organise a lottery to collect donations  
#greenisthenewblack
for charity organisations and projects 
around the world. In Italy, the total 
SALEWA'S GREEN FRIDAY 
amount collected from our employees is 
then increased tenfold by the company. 
On Black Friday in 2018, SALEWA launched a "Green is the new Black" 
In 2018, together we collectively donated 
campaign. Customers could buy our products at a discounted price and 
€42,000, split between three projects:
10% of every online purchase was donated to the non-profit organisation 
-  a charity that supports those with severe  Protect Our Winters (POW). POW focuses on raising awareness and fighting 
illnesses to fulfill one last dream against climate change in the winter sports community. The campaign 
was a success, with SALEWA donating a total of €13,000.
-  financial support for the municipality of 
Feltre, which was damaged during the 
FIGHTING THE STORMS
storms hitting Northern Italy in October
-  the construction of a well in Kenya to 
In October 2018, Italy was hit with severe rains and storms. Thousands of 
give an entire community access to 
hectares of forest were completely razed to the ground, and landslides and 
water for living and harvesting. 
floods damaged large parts of the country. In particular, the northern regions 
8
1 of Trentino and Veneto suffered a lot of damage. As one of our main offices 
20 KEEPING THE COLD OUT 
RT  is based in the heart of Veneto, we decided to support those affected by 
O
P
E the natural hazards, helping to clean up and rebuild the damaged areas.
R
Y  In 2018 we donated around 300 tent 
T
LI
BI groudsheets to an NGO working to help 
NA As a first step, we donated €11,000-worth of shoes to Montebelluna’s 
AI homeless people in Berlin staying dry  
ST civil defence organisation in support of the affected communities.  
SU and safe.
 P We also collected €13,000 of donations during our Christmas dinner to 
U
O
GR support the Feltre municipality. They used the money to help families in 
P 
AL need by rebuilding damaged buildings and cleaning up destroyed forests 
R
E
B and hiking paths.
O
9 0
4 5