OUR PRINCIPLES
 
1. Passion
We have unlimited enthusiasm for sport and mountains. For six 
generations this love for sport drives us to develop high quality 
and technically advanced products and brands. We do this in a 
reliable and responsible way.
2. People 
Positive attracts positive. Our core asset is our team of talented, 
The Oberalp Group is a family-owned company. 
open, and culturally diverse people who operate effectively,  
 
driven by clear goals and shared values. 
The Oberrauch Family has been working in the textile 
industry for six generations. Anton Oberrauch founded the  3. Courage 
We are courageous in the ways we explore our curiosity, seek new 
family business back in 1846 when he started to import 
paths, and then take responsibility for our decisions and actions.
quality textile products to the Italian market. In 1981,  
the Oberalp Group was founded and started distributing  4. Responsibility 
1
We use resources carefully with an acute awareness of our impact 
clothing and other sports products in Italy. and a deep desire to preserve the environment today and for 
future generations.
37 years later, we have around 650 employees. And we’re 
5. Ethic 
known for building great brands that make the highest  2We are a management driven family company and operate our 
business in a fair and responsible manner. We strive to create 
quality technical mountaineering products. Today, we’re 
meaningful relationships with our international partners.
active in the product design, development, production 
8
RT 201 aPnOdM dOisCtrAib auntdio Wn oILfD o uCrO foUuNr TbRraYn.ds: SALEWA, DYNAFIT,  36S.w Sewateiantg T tooggeetthheerr  is one of the virtues of sport and we live it 
O also at work. Even good things can be improved. We are brand 
P
E
R developers, focusing on constant improvement - always with  
Y 
LIT We also use our management and distribution experience  the objective to lead.
BI
A to help our partner brands in the sports sector, including  4
N
AI 7. Innovation 
ST Under Armour, Speedo, Fischer and more. Our brands live from ideas. Through the continuous innovation 
U
S of processes, products and ways of thinking and the cooperation 
 P
OU with qualified partners we achieve new standards of excellence.
R But while we've grown as a company, we're still a family.  
G
P 
AL And no matter how much we will continue to grow, our  8. Future 
R Think long-term but act fast and execute well. Financial success  
BE people will always come first.
O is the consequence and ensures our independence.
6 7