OUR CHEMICAL   PRODUCT TESTING  
POLICY AND CERTIFICATIONS 
We launched the new Oberalp Chemical Policy  Another way we ensure our products are safe is 
in 2018. It introduces a formal process to ban, or limit,  by working with expert partners and third party 
the presence and use of hazardous substances in our  certifications. Most of the textiles we use in our apparel 
products and production processes. This guarantees  are bluesign® or OEKO-TEX® certified – indicators of 
safety and compliance. high standards in safety and quality. 
           
The policy includes our Restricted Substances List  In 2018, more than 70% of our textiles were certified by 
(RSL), a list of chemicals that are excluded or limited  one of our partners. The remaining 30% were tested by 
from all our products. Our ambition is a best-practice  independent chemical laboratories to check that they 
standard, and we update it every year to include the  complied with our strict standards. 
In 2018, we conducted 
latest research. Our RSL has been used internally 
more than 2,000 chemical tests on our products on over 
since 2014 – with our new policy, it’s now updated  
3,000 chemical groups.
and formalised. 
- O  EKO-TEX® guarantees that no hazardous chemicals  
           
are used in a material. Test criteria and limit values in  
All SALEWA, DYNAFIT, WILD COUNTRY and POMOCA 
many cases go far beyond applicable national and 
branded products have to abide by the policy. 
8
1 international standards.
0
2
T 
R
O It’s a central part of the Conditions of Purchase with  - b  luesign® takes it one step further: it guarantees that  
P
E
Y R our suppliers, and it’s mandatory at every stage of  not only the final material, but the whole process of  
T
BILI the production and distribution process. making it, is safe – ensuring safety for everyone involved  
A
AIN in the production.
T
US More than 90% of our suppliers have already 
S
 UP committed to the Oberalp Chemical Policy.
O
R
G
P 
L
A
R
E
B
O
9 0
5 6