REDUCING OUR  
Some of what we've achieved so far:
-  Our Code of Conduct, which all suppliers sign and agree  
CARBON FOOTPRINT
upon, sets environmental protection as one of the standards.
-  We’re bluesign system partners and many of our partner 
factories are, too. 
Back in 2015, we conducted a Corporate Carbon Footprint 
-  A majority of our suppliers are committed to using the Higg 
study on our entire company, to see where our biggest 
Index** as a way to transparently share, benchmark and track 
environmental impacts are. This was the outcome: 
the environmental performance of our supply chain.
-  We encourage employees to organise car-sharing for their 
business travels. 
-  Our car-free to work competition rewards employees who opt 
out of commuting to and from work by car. In 2018, together 
INDIRECT  86% 14% DIRECT  
we commuted car-free for a total of 47,918 km, resulting in an 
IMPACT* IMPACT
estimated saving of 11.02 tonnes of CO  emissions.
2
-   LED lighting in shops: as of 2017, we only use LED lighting  
in all new or renovated shops.
Our environmental impact -  In 2018, our global electricity consumption across all our 
8
01 offices was 6646,45 GJ (1.846.235,06 kWh).
2
T 
R
O
P Our study showed that over 80% of our impact is actually  -  We installed 9 video conference devices across the 4 countries, 
E
R
TY  related to our production. However, we don’t own any of  where we normally commute a lot between offices;  
LI
BI our production – it’s all outsourced, except for our skins  to reduce the amount of business travel and increase our  
A
N
AI production in Switzerland. But this doesn’t mean we will sit  work and meeting efficiency.
T
S
U
S back and ignore the problem. 
 P
U
O
R
G
P 
L
A *   Indirect impact refers to all our outsourced operations (production,  **  The Higg Index is a self-assessment and benchmarking tool  
R
E
B transportation, etc). Because a company has no direct control over them,   for apparel and footwear industries for assessing environmental  
O
the responsibility is normally limited. and social sustainability throughout the supply chain. 
8 9
7 7