OUR BRANDS
POMOCA  Wild Country 
Empowering freedom of Pure Climbing
movement in the mountains  
Wild Country is the brainchild of UK-based climber Mark 
Vallance. It was set up to manufacture what’s become the 
POMOCA is the world market leader for ski touring 
most famous piece of rock climbing gear of all time: the 
climbing skins, developed and produced in Switzerland. 
Friend. Even today, Wild Country offers customers the 
It’s also a centre of excellence for mountain and trail 
greatest possible freedom in their vertical activities with its 
running outsoles. The brand has been producing 
technical climbing products. It uses technology to reduce 
exclusively in Switzerland since 1933, growing from 
the risk of climbing to the lowest possible level – exceeding 
being the sole supplier for the Swiss Army to a specialist 
safety standards and setting them even higher. 
in the development of technologies that enhance 
mountaineering equipment with adhesion, friction and 
Wild Country inspired a new era for rock climbing in the 
gliding properties. 
1970s with the invention of the Friend. Since then, it’s 
kept developing new possibilities for climbing through 
POMOCA's products are among the series winners in 
pioneering technologies. With the Revo safety device, the 
the world's ski touring skin tests, winning over 80% of 
brand has set a new standard in the industry. Like a seatbelt 
the medals in international races. Athletes consider pink 
in a vehicle, the Revo automatically cushions a possible 
POMOCA racing skins to be the standard. In addition to 
8
01 its function as a product brand, POMOCA also acts as an  rope fall without any additional intervention by the rope 
2
ORT  ingredient brand for many established ski mountaineering  partner. 
P
RE brands – including those within the Oberalp Group. 
LITY  POMOCA’s headquarters are in the French-speaking part  Wild Country exports its products from Bolzano, Italy 
BI across the world through its own online distribution.
A of Switzerland in Denges, near Lausanne.
N
AI
T
S
U wildcountry.com
S POMOCA.com
 P
U
O
R
G
P 
L
A
R
E
B
O
0
1