An introduction from  11
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
into their business objectives with a  a sustainable future. Chiesi is the 
- Letter from the CEO
shared value approach. largest pharmaceutical group to be 
01 awarded B Corp certification with 
Chiesi at a Glance
In 2019 we then became a certified  87.5 points.
02 B Corporation (B Corp) to strengthen 
Positive Impacts  e
our commitment. Chiesi received B  We undertook the B Impact Asses- c
and Challenges n
a
- Products and Patients Corp certification from the leading  sment  (BIA),  which  measures  the  gl
- Processes a 
global  sustainability  non-profit  B  positive impact of a company on its  t 
- Global Value Chain a
- Corporate Citizenship Lab®, in recognition of our corpo- workers,  community,  environment,  si 
e
i
rate sustainability practices. This is  and customers, and we started a  h
C
03
Chiesi’s contribution  one of the most fundamental steps  global improvement plan, finally be-
to the UN Sustainable 
to  achieving  our  stated  vision  of  coming eligible for certification.
Development Goals
continuous  improvement  towards 
04
Annexes 1Delaware DEL. CODE ANN. tit. 8, §§ 361-368 (2019)
- Impact Report
- Data, Methodology 
   and GRI Content Index
About B Corporations®
Certified B Corporations are for-profit companies that use the 
power of business to build a more inclusive and sustainable eco-
nomy. They meet the highest verified standards of social and envi-
ronmental performance, transparency, and accountability. To date, 
there are more than 2,700 B Corps in 150 industries and 60 coun-
tries around the world.
About B Lab®
B Lab® is a non-profit that serves a global movement of people 
using business as a force for goodTM. Their initiatives include B 
Corp Certification, administration of the B Impact Management 
programs, and advocacy for governance structures like the be-
nefit corporation. B Lab® envisions an inclusive and sustainable 
economy that creates shared prosperity for all.