An introduction from  105
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
SDG 12 - Responsible Consumption and Production
- Letter from the CEO
Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns
01
Chiesi at a Glance
This module highlights key practices a business can take to contribute to SDG 12 
02 - Responsible Consumption and Production - including adopting circular economy 
Positive Impacts  s
principles, assessing supplier impact on resource consumption, and setting and  al
and Challenges o
G
- Products and Patients reporting publicly on sustainability targets.
t 
- Processes n
e
- Global Value Chain m
- Corporate Citizenship p
o
el
v
03 e
D
Chiesi’s contribution  e 
to the UN Sustainable  bl
a
Development Goals n
i
a
t
s
04 u
S
Annexes N 
- Impact Report U
- Data, Methodology  he 
   and GRI Content Index o t
t
n 
Takeaways: o
i
t
u
— Our business model is not specifically designed to ensure sustainable consu- b
i
r
mption and production patterns. Chiesi’s commitment results in the alignment of  nt
o
our social and environmental performance throughout our practices and proces- s c
i’
ses to address SDG 12 targets. es
i
h
C
— With regard to the ‘Internal Operations’ category, the tool recognises Chiesi’s 
commitment in encouraging responsible consumption and production. In particu-
lar, the reporting method we chose for our social and environmental performance 
represents the company’s commitment to transparency. Some of the more diffi-
cult points can be traced back to typical challenges of the pharma sector, such as 
the longevity of products, the reduction of end of life waste and the percentage of 
environmentally preferred materials (from recycled materials, reused componen-
ts, and/or certified sustainably sourced materials). The difficulty in intervening in 
these matters also stems from the strict regulation of our sector.
— Our Suppliers Code of Interdependence includes specific indications to ensure 
responsible consumption and production. In this area of evaluation, special reco-
gnition is also given to Chiesi’s chemical management system. Beyond our stren-
gths, we came to understand that we need to focus more on waste management 
across the entire supply chain.
— Our policy making strategy does not include any initiatives specifically designed to ad-
vocate for policy changes to contribute to SDG 12 (either at individual or collective level).
 
— Chiesi shows a low level of risk in negatively affecting or inhibiting SDG 12.