An introduction from  12
our management
- Chairman’s Statement Our Mission
- Letter from the CEO
01
Chiesi at a Glance
02
Positive Impacts  e
c
and Challenges n
a
- Products and Patients gl
- Processes a 
- Global Value Chain Our aim is to be recogni- We wish to maintain a  Our goal is to combine  at 
- Corporate Citizenship sed as a research-focu- team characterised  commitment to  si 
e
sed international Group,  by innovative  results with integrity,  hi
C
03 able to develop and  pharmaceutical operating in a socially 
Chiesi’s contribution  commercialise innovati- self-confidence and a  and environmentally 
to the UN Sustainable 
ve pharmaceutical collaborative spirit. responsible manner.
Development Goals
solutions to improve the
quality of human life. 
04
Annexes
- Impact Report
- Data, Methodology  Our Vision 2025
   and GRI Content Index
By 2025 we aspire to be a point of re- act as a force for good, promoting a 
ference for patients affected by chro- conscious and different way of doing 
nic  respiratory  disorders,  neonatal  business, that strives to achieve a po-
pathologies, rare diseases and other  sitive impact on society and nature, 
health conditions which are difficult to  handling resources in a circular way 
treat. We commit to offering patients,  and creating a new harmony, finally 
and those who take care of them, in- sustainable.
novative solutions in the management  We work to embrace state-of-the-art 
of their needs, even exploring new  technologies to identify and develop 
frontiers in treatment and care. new therapies, to streamline proces-
As a family-controlled company, we  ses, improve efficiency, favour peo-
want to continue to grow sustainably  ple working proximity and sharing.
by focusing on key markets such as  We believe we can achieve all this 
the US and Europe, but also expan- only through teamwork, taking care 
ding patients’ access to care in key  with particular attention of the wel-
emerging countries like China. We  lbeing and the excellence of all the 
aim to maintain a profitability level  people working with us. Leveraging 
adequate to support our investments  diversity and creativity, we want to 
in innovation and development and  promote a working environment that 
our internationalisation efforts.  welcomes  everyone’s  contribution 
As a Benefit Corporation, we want to  and awards personal accountability.
EVERY ONE OF US IS DIFFERENT,
EVERY ONE OF US IS CHIESI