An introduction from  111
our management
- Chairman’s Statement Chairman’s Statement
- Letter from the CEO
01
Chiesi at a Glance The Chairman’s Statement can be found in Chiesi’s Sustainability Report 2019 
at page 4.
02
Positive Impacts  s
e
and Challenges x
Introduction e
n
- Products and Patients n
- Processes A
- Global Value Chain
- Corporate Citizenship
As we can all observe, a cultural change is underway that will forever modify 
03 the way we understand and do business. A change that Chiesi has embraced 
Chiesi’s contribution 
to the UN Sustainable  and which sees the vocation of the company at the centre, as a guide for the 
Development Goals
decisions we make and the actions we take every day.
 
04
Annexes For this reason 2019 was for us, in Chiesi, a year of redesign: the year in which 
- Impact Report
we created the conditions to imagine our future.
- Data, Methodology 
   and GRI Content Index  
First of all, we have chosen to face a challenge that will accompany us in the 
years to come: we want to become a Carbon Neutral company by 2035, zeroing 
our emissions balance in advance on the deadlines set by the Paris Agreement 
and, more recently, Europe, of 15 years.
The first step we have focused on is the knowledge of the problem in its 
complexity, from the study of the emissions produced by our activity and the 
solutions to reduce and mitigate them, to the operational implications. We have 
undertaken a programme to measure the CO2 emissions associated with our 
products, buildings, production sites and logistics. This step was fundamental 
in the design of a multi-year Carbon Neutrality plan that will be put into action in 
2020 and will guide the company over the next 15 years: an historic course for 
Chiesi and the entire pharmaceutical sector.
Another crucial aspect for the current year is the strengthening of the stakeholder 
engagement programme, with which we wish to share our experience and our 
new way of doing business. We want to establish a true and solid relationship 
of interdependence with our suppliers. We want to take care of and give new 
life to the territory and local communities in which we operate around the world.
Furthermore, we want the people who work at Chiesi to have the tools and 
conditions  for  their  personal  and  professional  fulfilment.  The  third  great 
challenge is diversity. We want to seek and apply best practices that foster 
diversity and inclusion for an absolute goal of equity as a basis for contributing 
to the happiness of all people in Chiesi.
Last but not least, we are laying the foundations for an evolution of our Research 
and Development towards a new centrality of the patient. We intend to include 
the patient, his or her experience and needs in the design of solutions from the 