An introduction from  114
our management
- Chairman’s Statement Specific purpose of common 
- Letter from the CEO
benefit (I):
01
Chiesi at a Glance
Commitment to continuous and sustainable innova-
02
Positive Impacts  tion of processes and all business practices in order  s
e
and Challenges x
e
to minimise negative impacts and amplify positive  n
- Products and Patients n
- Processes A
impacts on people, the biosphere and the territory.
- Global Value Chain
- Corporate Citizenship
03 What we did in 2019
Chiesi’s contribution 
Chiesi's commitment to this purpose of common benefit was carried on in 2019 
to the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals with specific attention to the environmental impact generated by the company. 
This priority was reflected in the implementation of the following actions:
04
Annexes
- Impact Report 1.Carbon Footprint 
- Data, Methodology 
We completed the carbon footprint analysis concerning those products that, in 
   and GRI Content Index
terms of importance, volume and potential environmental impact, particularly in 
terms of GWP (Global Warming Potential) linked to the propellant they contain, 
are considered of greater importance: the inhaler devices for the treatment of 
chronic respiratory diseases. In 2019, we calculated the carbon footprint of 
all our inhalation products (pressurized metered dose inhalers - pMDI and dry 
powder inhalers - DPI). The target was the completion, by the end of the year, of 
the carbon footprint analysis of the entire life cycle of the product including raw 
materials, production processes, end use of the product and its disposal.
This activity was successfully completed and allowed us to obtain Certiquality 
certification, according to the standard ISO 14067. We also had a peer review 
testifying the conformity of the process adopted. The review was carried out by 
the international body Carbon Trust (UK).
2.Energy efficiency
Energy efficiency is, together with reducing energy consumption, another crucial 
point of the journey towards achieving net zero carbon footprint. In 2019, an 
energy audit was completed in compliance with the legal standard on energy 
audits. Our approach also includes the implementation of an Energy Management 
System. The energy performance assessment and all related activities will also 
be a useful baseline for future certification processes in accordance with the ISO 
50001 standard.
3.Sustainable Chemistry Policy
In addition to activities related to CO2 emissions, we are also working on other 
forms of environmental impact. Regarding the topic of chemistry in particular, 
we acted to ensure that the management of raw materials, manufacturing and 
research processes comply with sustainable chemistry criteria. 
In 2019, we developed a Sustainable Chemistry Policy regarding the proper 
management of chemicals and the high safety standards we want to ensure 