An introduction from  115
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
for the people working on these processes. The policy is based on fundamental 
- Letter from the CEO
aspects for the management of the issue, such as providing information to the 
01 stakeholders involved, the substitution of certain substances whenever possible 
Chiesi at a Glance
through innovative solutions and process optimisation, and the commitment to 
02 a Life Cycle Perspective approach regarding the impact of our products both 
Positive Impacts  on health, safety and the environment. The policy is published on our website  es
and Challenges x
e
- Products and Patients https://www.chiesi.com/en/sustainability/environment/. nn
- Processes A
- Global Value Chain
- Corporate Citizenship Our commitments for 2020 
Below is a description of the commitments for 2020, pursuing the common 
03
benefit  purpose  described  in  this  section,  in  continuity  with  the  activities 
Chiesi’s contribution 
to the UN Sustainable  undertaken in 2019, with a particular focus on Carbon Neutrality.
Development Goals
04 > Towards Carbon Neutrality
Annexes
For 2020, we will develop an action plan to achieve Carbon Neutrality, i.e. net 
- Impact Report
- Data, Methodology  zero carbon footprint by 2035, in relation to Scope 1 (direct emissions), Scope 
   and GRI Content Index
2 (indirect emissions mainly due to electricity purchase) and Scope 3 (other 
indirect emissions). The main aspects of the plan in 2020 will be the analysis 
of the scope materiality of other indirect emissions and the use of energy from 
renewable sources.
> Energy efficiency of our buildings 
The energy efficiency efforts will be the base of the certification of our Energy 
Management System according to the international standard ISO 50001.
> The new Headquarters with high environmental and social standards
We aim to obtain a recognition of high environmental and social standards for 
our new Headquarters in Parma by obtaining the Leed Gold v.4 certification.
> Animal Welfare
Aware  of  the  fundamental  role  and  contribution  that  animals  have  in  drug 
development, Chiesi promotes the highest ethical standards, acting to ensure 
maximum respect for the health and care of experimental animals. In our scientific 
research, animal testing is a very limited part of the work and is only carried out when 
there are no viable alternatives to ensure the safety and efficacy of our products. 
These tests are necessary and mandatory to process the pre-clinical data to be 
submitted to regulatory authorities such as the FDA (Food and Drug Administration) 
and the EMA (European Medicines Agency) and to obtain authorisation to proceed 
with human studies, and then receive the final product’s approval. 
The scientific community around the world agrees that while it is desirable to 
replace animal testing with alternative methods, animal testing continues to be 
necessary to protect human, environmental and animal health.
In 2020 we want to begin the AAALAC (Association for Assessment and 
Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care) accreditation process, one of the 
most internationally recognised bodies in good animal use and care practices, 
in addition to compliance with local and national regulations.