An introduction from  116
our management
- Chairman’s Statement Specific purpose of common 
- Letter from the CEO
benefit (II):
01
Chiesi at a Glance
Positive impact on people and patients, with the 
02
Positive Impacts  aim of improving their health, well-being and qua- s
e
and Challenges x
e
lity of life. n
- Products and Patients n
- Processes A
- Global Value Chain
- Corporate Citizenship What we did in 2019
Chiesi's commitment in relation to this purpose of common benefit regarded the 
03
Chiesi’s contribution  implementation of the following actions:
to the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals
1. Research and Development Expenditure
04
Improving people's health and quality of life is our vocation. For this reason, 
Annexes
we believe that investing in Research and Development (R&D) is necessary to 
- Impact Report
- Data, Methodology  promote the discovery of innovative therapeutic solutions to tackle those diseases 
   and GRI Content Index
for which, despite scientific progress, the medical need remains high, such as 
chronic respiratory diseases, diseases due to neonatal prematurity, rare diseases 
and special care. In 2019, our R&D (Research & Development) expenditure 
amounted to 19% of our revenues, of which 38.2% was spent in neonatology, rare 
diseases and special care, with a particular focus on innovative therapies and 
services. Chiesi ranks first among Italian pharmaceutical companies, second 
among  Italian  manufacturing  companies  and  fourteenth  among  European 
pharmaceutical companies for investments in research15.
2. Training in Neonatology
Consistent with Chiesi's commitment to promoting scientific progress also 
through medical training, in 2019 more than 20 of the Group's affiliates organised 
neonatology training events targeting healthcare professionals around the 
world. The training programmes took place in various countries of the European 
Union, the United States, China and emerging countries, with more than 450 
training sessions and a total of 27,000 healthcare professionals involved. 
Many topics of great relevance to clinical practice were covered, such as 
respiratory support, infant stabilisation in delivery rooms, ventilation techniques 
and  less  invasive  methods  of  surfactant  administration  for  infants  with 
Respiratory Distress Syndrome. 
Another important pilot programme was carried out in Pakistan, where one of 
Chiesi Group's affiliates is present. The programme aimed to train 20 nurses 
working in neonatal intensive care units. The project is of particular value 
in light of the socio-economic condition of the country, which currently has 
the highest neonatal mortality rate in the world and where the improvement 
of neonatal care standards requires particular attention in a joint effort by 
government and industry.
15The 2019 EU Industrial R&D Investment Scoreboard