An introduction from  120
our management
- Chairman’s Statement Specific purpose of common 
- Letter from the CEO
benefit (IV):
01
Chiesi at a Glance
Promotion of a conscious and sustainable way of 
02
Positive Impacts  conducting business, also through collaborative dia- s
e
and Challenges x
e
logue with stakeholders. n
- Products and Patients n
- Processes A
- Global Value Chain
- Corporate Citizenship What we did in 2019
As a B Corp and Benefit Corporation we believe that interdependence is a 
03
Chiesi’s contribution  primary value. Every part of the system is connected with the others and these 
to the UN Sustainable 
relationships are the basis for boosting the positive impact created by the 
Development Goals
company. In order to expand the value that we are able to generate we cannot 
04
ignore the involvement of our stakeholders and this is particularly true when we 
Annexes
talk about value chains. 
- Impact Report
- Data, Methodology  Chiesi's commitment to this purpose of common benefit in 2019 includes the 
   and GRI Content Index
implementation of the following actions:
1. Suppliers’ code of interdependence 
Chiesi Group's Supplier Code of Interdependence is an innovative and unique 
tool, both in terms of its structure (based on the United Nations' Sustainable 
Development Goals) and in terms of content, which includes sustainability 
topics. The code was co-created with the contribution of 120 people from Chiesi 
Group and the representatives of 70 international suppliers, in a process that 
has enabled them to fully share and adhere to the values of the code. It was 
approved by Chiesi Executive Committee at the end of 2019. 
The points of the Code will not simply represent a list of directives, but a 
shared responsibility so as to generate a virtuous circle for all on an economic, 
environmental and social level. 
The publication on www.chiesi.com took place in February 2020, and formal 
implementation is planned throughout the year. For our Headquarters, the Code 
of Interdependence will be included in the supplier qualification processes, while 
we are working with all of our affiliates to support its implementation locally.
2. Training programme “We ACT Educational”
We Actively Care for Tomorrow was Chiesi's sustainability programme launched 
in 2018 which included a plan to engage and raise awareness on sustainability 
among  Chiesi  employees.  "We  ACT  Educational",  a  training  programme 
dedicated to sustainability, was also included in this plan. The topics covered 
the basic principles of environmental and social sustainability, the United 
Nations' Sustainable Development Goals, B Corp and Benefit Corporations, 
and the presentation of some corporate projects arising from our sustainability 
strategic plan. This training project has been extended to the entire Chiesi Group 