An introduction from  121
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
in order to ensure the dissemination of sustainability values and principles 
- Letter from the CEO
among our people, given their importance for our business. In 2019, we reached 
01 a participation rate of 70% of Chiesi Group employees.
Chiesi at a Glance
02 Our commitments for 2020 
Positive Impacts  Below is a description of the commitment planned for 2020 aimed at achieving  es
and Challenges x
e
- Products and Patients the purpose of common benefit described in this section. nn
- Processes A
- Global Value Chain
- Corporate Citizenship > Involvement of patients in our processes 
Including the voice and perspectives of our patients in our processes and in the 
03
development of our drugs is the approach we try to adopt in our daily activities. 
Chiesi’s contribution 
to the UN Sustainable  In 2020, we want to carry out more structured stakeholder engagement activities 
Development Goals
with our patients, listening to their experiences, understanding their lifestyles 
04 and integrating their suggestions. This represents our shared value approach 
Annexes
and will allow the co-creation of innovative solutions, developed around their 
- Impact Report
- Data, Methodology  specific needs.
   and GRI Content Index
> Implementation of the Code of Interdependence among our suppliers
The implementation of the Code of Interdependence will take place gradually 
throughout the year in the supplier qualification and evaluation processes. In 
addition to the code, these processes integrate, by design, further sustainability 
principles. Furthermore, the Code of Interdependence will be the baseline of the 
supplier audit plan. In 2020 we will therefore start implementing the Code of 
Interdependence with our strategic suppliers.
General Purpose of 
Common Benefit and Impact 
Assessment
As a Benefit Corporation, Chiesi is committed to pursuing, in addition to the 
economic objectives of its business activity, the purposes of common benefit. 
We are committed to operating in a responsible, sustainable and transparent 
manner towards people, communities, territories and the environment, to 
cultural and social assets and to activities, bodies and associations and other 
stakeholders. 
In order to comply with legal requirements and to report the impact generated 
by the company, Chiesi uses the third-party standard B Impact Assessment, 
the assessment tool that underpins B Corp certification. 
The impact assessment for the year 2019 and related to the Italian perimeter 
resulted in a score of 91.8 points, measured with version 6 of the B Impact 
Assessment made available from April 2019. There was a small reduction 
in the score of about 2 points compared to the measurement of 2018 due 
to the new "major release" of the assessment tool which modified some key 