An introduction from  123
our management
- Chairman’s Statement Impact report reviewed 
- Letter from the CEO
by Nativa
01
Chiesi at a Glance
02
Positive Impacts  This impact report is the result of a process of collaboration between Chiesi  s
e
and Challenges x
Farmaceutici SpA and Nativa Srl SB, inspired by the values of transparency,  e
n
- Products and Patients n
- Processes trust and interdependence and designed to ensure the reliability and accuracy  A
- Global Value Chain
of what is reported.
- Corporate Citizenship
03 The ultimate goal of this process is the validation by Nativa of both the 
Chiesi’s contribution 
to the UN Sustainable  updating of the impact measurement using the B Impact Assessment tool 
Development Goals
and a continuous and effective commitment to work towards the progressive 
achievement of specific purposes of common benefit.
04
Annexes
- Impact Report
The Review process is structured in three areas:
- Data, Methodology 
   and GRI Content Index
1) Organisation: to ensure that key roles by area of expertise have been involved 
and to ensure the necessary know-how to update the BIA.
In this specific case the company has increased the level of preparation of the 
organisation with the design and dissemination of a support handbook.
2) Data reliability: to ensure that the data and information produced are based 
on a quality structured process. 
In this specific case, the company has designed a process for collecting 
and verifying company data, structured so as to involve the main company 
functions. A quality check mechanism has also been implemented to guarantee 
the reliability of the data itself.
3) Quality check of the BIA compilation: to ensure the correct compilation of the 
analysis tool.
 
In this specific case, the BIA update responses have been checked and validated 
with the team contact person responsible for the compilation through a drill 
down of the impact areas most affected by the change of standards from V5 to 
V6 of the BIA and the improvement actions implemented during 2019. Finally, 
a validation was carried out through the verification of the documental support 
and the most important data.