An introduction from  125
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
— to equip themselves with a governance that allows them to manage the 
- Letter from the CEO
company as a force for regeneration of society and the biosphere.
01
Chiesi at a Glance
The legal form of Benefit Corporation has created a new role that serves to 
02 transform the company from within: the person responsible for the impact is the 
Positive Impacts  person entrusted, in agreement with the management, with the task of ensuring  es
and Challenges x
e
- Products and Patients that the company, in carrying out its activities, also aims to have a positive  nn
- Processes A
impact on people, society and the environment, and pursues the purposes of 
- Global Value Chain
- Corporate Citizenship common benefit declared in its articles of association.
03
In  measuring  their  impacts,  Benefit  Corporations  use  a  technological 
Chiesi’s contribution 
to the UN Sustainable  measurement platform, the B Impact Assessment (BIA) developed by the non-
Development Goals
profit B Lab. This protocol, available for free online worldwide, allows companies 
04 to measure whether they create more value than they destroy, i.e. whether it is 
Annexes
regenerative. If a given company, by measuring all of its economic, environmental 
- Impact Report
- Data, Methodology  and social impacts through the BIA protocol, exceeds a threshold of excellence 
   and GRI Content Index
of 80 points, verified by the B Lab Standards Trust on a scale from 0 to 200, 
then it is eligible to be B Corp Certified. Certified B Corp are the companies that, 
worldwide, are committed to spreading more advanced business paradigms 
and have promoted, since 2006, the legal form of Benefit Corporation / Società 
Benefit throughout the world.
 
The thousands of B Corps and the 120,000 companies that use them, across 
71 countries and 150 industries, represent a concrete, positive and scalable 
solution that creates value for both shareholders and stakeholders. One of 
the fundamental principles of the B Corp values is interdependence, i.e. co-
responsibility among B Corps, responsibility towards all stakeholders and future 
generations. Currently, in Italy, there are about 100 certified B Corps and over 
400 Benefit Corporations, the fastest growing community in the world.
https://bcorporation.net   
http://www.societabenefit.net