An introduction from  14
our management
- Chairman’s Statement Our Global Challenge: 
- Letter from the CEO
Carbon Neutrality
01
Chiesi at a Glance
02
Positive Impacts  We are facing a global climate emer- has developed exponentially in recent  e
c
and Challenges n
gency.  This  is  scientifically  proven  years and continues to do so, however  a
- Products and Patients gl
- Processes and exponentially pervasive in every  we realise that there is still progress  a 
t 
- Global Value Chain a
- Corporate Citizenship aspect of our lives, affecting business  to be made in this field. Nevertheless,  si 
e
and personal habits.  we have committed to this ambitious  hi
C
03
target because every business and 
Chiesi’s contribution 
to the UN Sustainable  At Chiesi, we recognise that we have  every individual has the capacity and 
Development Goals
a responsibility as a business, and we  the duty to make a difference.  
have committed to reducing and pre- Our company has already made a big 
04
Annexes venting  our  negative  environmental  step in this direction. We announced 
- Impact Report
impacts.  at the United Nations Climate Chan-
- Data, Methodology 
   and GRI Content Index ge Conference (COP25) our plan to 
In 2019 we decided to significantly  bring to market, by the end of 2025, a 
raise the bar by adopting the commit- breakthrough, carbon minimal pMDI 
ment to become carbon neutral by the  inhaler for patients with asthma and 
end of 2035, achieving a net zero car- chronic obstructive pulmonary dise-
bon footprint. ase (COPD). Currently, pMDI inhalers 
account  for  a  negligible  proportion 
It will not be an easy journey. Our  of total emissions, but we are com-
operations depend on the various ac- mitted to leading the way towards 
tors involved in our system and value  carbon minimal pMDI solutions that 
chain, being them suppliers, partners,  maintain the necessary array of thera-
distributors,  institutions,  and  many  peutic solutions for patients. This is a 
others. All these actors contribute to  first fundamental step in our journey 
our carbon footprint at different le- of systematically reducing emissions 
vels. Technology  within  this  sector  at global scale.