An introduction from  146
our management
- Chairman’s Statement Note on Methodology
- Letter from the CEO
01
Chiesi at a Glance This third Sustainability Report from  this information guarantees a comple-
Chiesi Group (Chiesi) provides for our  te representation of the social impact 
02
stakeholders a clear picture of our acti- produced by the Group.
Positive Impacts  s
e
and Challenges vities and our impact on sustainability.  In November 2019, the Group comple- ex
n
- Products and Patients n
- Processes In it, we describe our initiatives and the  ted the acquisition of the Australian  A
- Global Value Chain positive impacts that we achieved in  Company Emerge Health PTY and its 
- Corporate Citizenship
2019 (reporting period: 1 January to 31  subsidiary operating in New Zealand.
03 December 2019) as well as the strug- Further to that, the company Chie-
Chiesi’s contribution 
gles we are facing. In accordance with  si S.A. operating in Switzerland has 
to the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals our legal status of Benefit Corporation,  been integrated in the consolidation’s 
also the Impact Report 2020 is inclu- perimeter due to the growth of its 
04
Annexes ded in this document. business. We did not experience any 
- Impact Report This report has been prepared in ac- other significant change concerning 
- Data, Methodology 
   and GRI Content Index cordance  with  the  GRI  Standards:  the organization’s size, structure, ow-
Core option. nership, or supply chain.
Data and indicators reported in this  Unless otherwise indicated, data and 
document have been chosen from a  information contained in this Report 
variety of economic, social, and envi- refer to the year 2019. However, in or-
ronmental factors that are most signi- der to facilitate an evaluation of the 
ficant for Chiesi’s business and Chiesi’s  ongoing trend of the activity, the data 
stakeholders. and information related to the previous 
With regard to the financial data, the  year, if available, are reported for com-
scope  of  reporting  corresponds  to  parative purposes. Any restatements 
that of Chiesi’s consolidated financial  of data and figures published in the 
statement. Regarding the qualitative  previous Sustainability Report is clear-
and quantitative data on social and  ly indicated throughout the document.
environmental aspects, the scope of  In order to provide the most accurate 
reporting corresponds to Chiesi and  representation of performance and to 
its subsidiaries consolidated on a li- ensure that the data are reliable, direct-
ne-by-line basis in the consolidated  ly  measurable  quantities  have  been 
financial  statement.  Any  exception,  included while limiting, as far as pos-
with regard to the scope of this data,  sible, the use of estimates. Any figure 
is  clearly  indicated  throughout  the  that has been estimated is indicated 
Sustainability Report. Moreover, data  as such; moreover, certain totals in the 
and information related to initiatives  tables shown in this document may 
of the Chiesi Foundation have been  not add up due to rounding.
reported  in  the  chapter  “Corporate  As regards the frequency of publica-
Citizenship”, even if the Foundation is  tion, reporting will be annual.
not included in the scope of the Con- As  regards  the  frequency  of  publi-
solidated  Financial  Statement.  The  cation, reporting will be annual. The 
Foundation represents an important  report is also available on the Chiesi 
element of the Group strategy in the  website (www.chiesi.com) in the “Su-
social area; therefore, the inclusion of  stainability” section.