An introduction from  18
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
This analysis led to the identification of the following material topics:
- Letter from the CEO
01
Chiesi at a Glance
MATERIAL 
AREA GENERAL DEFINITION
TOPIC
02
Positive Impacts  e
c
and Challenges Compliance with national laws and regula- n
a
- Products and Patients tions in place in the countries in which the  gl
- Processes Group is operating. The Group’s commit- t a 
--  GColorbpaolr Vatael uCei tCizheanisnhip mpreanctti ctoe sp rwoimtho atell  goof oitds  rbeulastiinoensssh pipasr tannedrs f;a iinr   esi a
Ethics and  i
particular, enforcing principles like freedom  h
compliance  C
03 of contract, fair dealing, written agreemen-
Chiesi’s contribution  ts and confidentiality. Group’s commitment 
to the UN Sustainable 
Citizenship to employee training concerning the ethical 
Development Goals
code of conduct and adoption of whist-
leblowers policy and procedures.
04
Annexes
- Impact Report Transparency about tax, economic contri-
- Data, Methodology  butions, clinical trials and reporting of the 
   and GRI Content Index Transparency company’s impact, both positive impact and 
areas of improvement, including non-finan-
cial topics. 
Activities and procedures aimed at offering 
high-quality products and services, through 
Product quality  the implementation of defined actions to 
and reliability guarantee the quality and safety of the com-
pany’s products and their compliance with 
laws and regulations.
Research and Development activities aimed 
at discovering new therapeutic solutions for 
Research and  significant unmet medical needs. The topic 
development also considers the use of innovative tech-
nologies, patents, intellectual property and 
avant-garde know-how.
Activities and procedures aimed at offering 
Products  high quality products and services to ensure 
Patients health 
and Patients the protection of patients’ health and safety. 
and safety
Including patient engagement and involve-
ment activities in our business.
Contributing to increased access to healthca-
re through our: products in specific therapeu-
tic areas, including rare diseases; meeting 
patient needs through engagement activities; 
Access to 
and working alongside healthcare authorities 
healthcare
to increase disease awareness and promote 
training for healthcare professionals, inclu-
ding those in low- and middle-income coun-
tries. 
Assessment and management of the envi-
Sustainable  ronmental impact of our products by taking 
products into consideration the entire life cycle throu-
ghout the value chain.