An introduction from  19
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
- Letter from the CEO MATERIAL 
AREA GENERAL DEFINITION
TOPIC
01
Chiesi at a Glance Responsible  Integration of our values of sustainability 
Global  management  throughout the evaluation processes and 
02 value chain of the value  business relationships with suppliers, colla-
Positive Impacts  chain borators and partners. e
c
and Challenges n
a
--  PPrroodceuscstess and Patients Compliance with national laws and regula- a gl
tions and international standards concer- t 
- Global Value Chain a
- Corporate Citizenship Employees  ning health and safety, prevention, hygiene  si 
health, safety  and health in the workplace. Development  e
i
h
and wellbeing of initiatives and practices to promote em- C
03
ployees’ health and safety and improve the 
Chiesi’s contribution 
quality of working conditions.
to the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals
Employee management and development 
04 and the Group’s ability to attract and retain 
Annexes talents. Training and development programs 
Human 
- Impact Report to strengthen employees’ managerial and or-
resources 
- Data, Methodology  ganizational skills and consolidate job-spe-
management 
   and GRI Content Index cific  professional  skills.  Motivation  and 
and 
fulfillment of employees allowing them to 
Processes development
feel part of the Group’s achievements. Em-
ployees’ engagement in the Group strategy 
and activities 
Implementation of adequate working practi-
ces to ensure equal opportunities through 
the elimination of all forms of discrimination 
Diversity  or harm due to gender, age, religion, sexual 
and equal  orientation, origin and ethnicity. Promotion 
opportunity of the “culture of diversity”, gender equality 
and intercultural teams, acknowledging this 
as an opportunity to create value within the 
company and the society
Promotion of energy-efficiency and other 
energy  conservation  initiatives,  including 
Environmental  projects aimed at reducing GHG emissions. 
protection Promotion of responsible usage of water 
resources, and responsible management of 
effluents and waste in our processes.
Effective and efficient resource evaluation 
and allocation to achieve short-term positi-
Economic  ve economic performance and middle- and 
value  long-term economic equilibrium. The ability 
generated of the Group to create and distribute direct 
economic value to different stakeholder ca-
tegories.
Citizenship
Contribution to the development of the so-
ciety and local communities in which the 
Local  company operates through initiatives aimed 
community  at creating shared value e.g. through social 
development investments  and  donations,  organization 
and promotion of volunteering programs, 
collaborating with non-profit organisations.