An introduction from  25
our management
- Chairman’s Statement Therapeutic Areas
- Letter from the CEO
01
Chiesi at a Glance Chronic respiratory  range of devices to ensure they are 
diseases
safe and effective, and environmen-
02
Positive Impacts  Chiesi has been developing medicines  tally-friendly. e
c
and Challenges n
to treat respiratory diseases for more  From the early beginnings of the Mon- a
- Products and Patients gl
- Processes than 30 years, pursuing an improved  treal Protocol in 1990, Chiesi was  a 
t 
- Global Value Chain a
- Corporate Citizenship patient  experience,  patient  choice,  among the first to openly support the  si 
e
and clinical efficacy and safety. phasing out of the production of sub- hi
C
03 Chiesi is highly committed to impro- stances responsible for ozone deple-
Chiesi’s contribution 
to the UN Sustainable  ving the quality of life for patients  tion, abandoning chlorofluorocarbon 
Development Goals
suffering  from  chronic  respiratory  (CFC) propellants used in pressuri-
diseases, such as asthma and Chro- zed  metered  dose  inhalers  (pMDI) 
04
Annexes nic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease  to move to hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) 
- Impact Report
(COPD), by targeting the underlying  propellant. 
- Data, Methodology 
   and GRI Content Index pathophysiological  conditions  such  Even today, with new technologies 
as tissue inflammation and airway  developing rapidly, we are proud to be 
constriction, which are typical cha- at the forefront of device innovation: 
racteristics of such diseases.  in December 2019 Chiesi announced 
Adherence to treatment regimens is  the first commercial agreement with 
central to a patient’s benefit, and this  propellant gas supplier Koura, to se-
is  especially  true  in  the  treatment  cure the supply of HFA 152a which is 
of  these  chronic  respiratory  disor- classified as a low Global Warming 
ders. Our patient-focused approach  Potential  (GWP)  propellant,  ten  ti-
is therefore also aimed at ensuring  mes lower than the currently used 
improved treatment adherence and  HFA 134a. We will work jointly with 
clinical  outcomes.  We  target  this  Koura to bring to the market by the 
objective with a dual approach: the  end of 2025 a breakthrough, envi-
use of a combination of medicamen- ronmentally  friendly  pMDI  inhaler 
ts and their effective delivery to the  for patients with asthma and COPD, 
target  organ  (the  lung). The  intro- while continuing investing on our DPI 
duction of combination treatments  platform.
not only helps patients to achieve  Our pMDI products now incorporate 
better clinical outcomes using only  a dose counter to enhance patient 
one device, but also greatly reduces  feedback and compliance. In paral-
the environmental impact compared  lel, we have continued the applica-
with the same drugs delivered throu- tion of our innovative DPI (Dry Pow-
gh separate multiple inhalers. Chiesi  der Inhalers) platform (NEXThaler®) 
has been successful in progressing  to an increasing number of novel tre-
the patient-access to both our dual  atment options. NEXThaler® incor-
and triple inhaled combination treat- porates a number of unique, simple, 
ments for patients with asthma and  and  patient-friendly  use  features, 
COPD across the world. As a result,  and is propellant-free. Ongoing de-
we are continuously developing our  velopments include the application 