An introduction from  26
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
of electronics to inhaler devices and  born prematurely and their families 
- Letter from the CEO
connecting  the  inhaler  to  the  pa- have been largely neglected in terms 
01 tients’ smartphone, allowing a sub- of commitment and innovation. We 
Chiesi at a Glance
sequent link to the prescribing phy- are therefore very proud and motiva-
02 sician as well. Such initiatives are  ted to be delivering meaningful sup-
Positive Impacts  seen as effective vehicles to enhan- port to this most deserving group. ce
and Challenges n
a
- Products and Patients ce  patient-engagement  with  their  When babies are born prematurely,  gl
- Processes a 
treatments and to directly improve  perhaps as soon as 25 weeks of  t 
- Global Value Chain a
- Corporate Citizenship patient benefits and the essential re- gestational age or 15 weeks before  si 
e
i
lationship with the caregiver. the natural delivery date, many of the  h
C
03
In addition to innovation in the inha- body organs and systems are not 
Chiesi’s contribution 
to the UN Sustainable  ler device field, we have continued  fully developed and are, therefore, 
Development Goals
to develop our innovative formula- dysfunctional, as the baby starts his 
04 tion technologies. These, along with  or her new life. Among those organs 
Annexes
the key features of our devices, en- are the lungs, which can efficiently 
- Impact Report
- Data, Methodology  sure delivery of extrafine aerosols,  execute their action of performing 
   and GRI Content Index
which maximise lung delivery and  an appropriate gas exchange (intake 
guarantees that medicaments treat  of oxygen and discharge of carbon 
both the large and, importantly, the  dioxide) only if completely develo-
extensive small peripheral airways.  ped. This action is facilitated by a 
This highly effective lung targeting  natural  complex  compound  called 
optimises  both  treatment  efficacy  surfactant, which is produced by a 
and dosing, to enhance tolerability  specific type of mature lung cells.
and product safety. In premature babies, the production 
Our product developments are not  of surfactant is severely reduced. In 
limited to the major and widespread  the field of neonatology, our flagship 
diseases of asthma and COPD, but  development is poractant alfa, a life 
also to the devastating conditions  saving product used to treat 5.3 mil-
of  cystic  fibrosis,  bronchiectasis,  lion premature babies in nearly 100 
pulmonary fibrosis, and pulmonary  countries  premature  worldwide  by 
arterial hypertension; diseases with  providing an effective replacement 
significant patient morbidity and re- for the natural lung surfactant es-
duced life expectancy. A new recent  sential  for  normal  breathing.  This 
focus is chronic cough, a symptom  life-saving  treatment  is  commonly 
instead  of  a  disease,  which  may  delivered  through  an  invasive,  al-
have a huge negative impact on pe- beit safe, placement of a tube into 
ople’s quality of life, with profound  the baby’s airways. In the pursuit of 
socio-economic  consequences  in  improving  patients’  quality  of  life, 
those affected. we have developed an alternative; a 
more patient-friendly and less inva-
Neonatology
sive delivery modality for surfactant 
Our focus in neonatology brings us  replacement. A series of new pro-
close to one of the most delicate me- grams in partnership with our inter-
dical fields and frail patient popula- national network of neonatologists 
tions with huge unmet needs. Babies  and specialists is also in place.