An introduction from  27
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
Each year approximately 2% of ba- ning projects to improve the clini-
- Letter from the CEO
bies are born suffering from hypoxic  cal practices of neonatologists. For 
01 respiratory distress often associated  example, in Poland, our Multichannel 
Chiesi at a Glance
with pulmonary hypertension. For 25  Neonatology Project aims at suppor-
02 years these critically ill babies have  ting traditional channels for promo-
Positive Impacts  been treated for hours or days with  tion in neonatology and to maintain  ce
and Challenges n
a
- Products and Patients inhaled nitric oxide, a potent vasodi- Chiesi’s scientific leadership in this  gl
- Processes a 
lator, which relaxes smooth muscle  field. In Spain, after the success of  t 
- Global Value Chain a
- Corporate Citizenship in the lungs and assists the transport  the first edition in 2017, a second  si 
e
i
of oxygen to the blood stream. As  edition  of  our  innovation  project  h
C
03
well as being connected to a venti- (Neostart)  was  held,  involving  all 
Chiesi’s contribution 
to the UN Sustainable  lator, these neonates are connected  the key stakeholders in the field of 
Development Goals
to a large and complicated device  neonatology,  with  the  objective  of 
04 which supplies the nitric oxide from  co-creating  breakthrough  solutions 
Annexes
heavy gas cylinders. Chiesi has licen- to improve the quality of life of pre-
- Impact Report
- Data, Methodology  sed the rights to a novel device whi- mature babies and their families. A 
   and GRI Content Index
ch creates nitric oxide at the bedside  similar initiative has also been imple-
from ambient air using a small, easy  mented in Russia, and collaboration 
to use technology. This system is  is  ongoing  with  neonatologists  in 
currently in the development phase  Pakistan to address the need to im-
and Chiesi has the distribution rights  prove access and quality of care in 
in all major territories worldwide. this country, where neonatal death is 
Our innovation efforts are not limi- particularly high. 
ted to those in respiratory disease, 
Special care
but also to other devastating con-
sequences of premature birth, such  The treatment of serious cardiova-
as neonatal brain injury. A further  scular disorders and complications 
example is a severe condition, with  is another area of high need. Our 
high social and clinical impact, espe- commitment  in  this  area  is  signi-
cially in U.S., called neonatal opioid  ficant. The portfolio consists of a 
withdrawal syndrome, in which ba- thrombolytic agent to break up clots 
bies exposed to opioids in the ute- obstructing the coronary arteries, a 
rus (because of the use or abuse of  platelet antiaggregant to prevent the 
these drugs by the mother) are born  formation of clots when catheters 
with a level of dependence and a bro- are used to break coronary plaques, a 
ad range of complications. For this  calcium  channel  blocker  indicated 
condition we are developing a novel  for the reduction of blood pressure, 
formulation and delivery system for  and a synthetic direct thrombin inhi-
administration of buprenorphine by  bitor. The thrombolytic agent is also 
the neonatal nurse to alleviate the  being developed for the rapid and 
babies’ suffering. effective clearance of blood clots in 
Chiesi’s commitment to neonatology  indwelling catheters used for drug 
does not end with the research and  administration in a range of indica-
development of innovative therapies  tions, including in cancer patients. 
and devices. We also support trai- The  quality  of  the  patient’s  expe-