An introduction from  28
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
rience is improved by preventing the  chnological innovation. In the first 3 
- Letter from the CEO
repeated, uncomfortable positioning  months, it already counts more than 
01 of these devices. Cardiovascular is a  150 employees and is present in the 
Chiesi at a Glance
particularly important therapy area  US, Canada, Europe and a few emer-
02 in the USA, and the expansion of our  ging countries including Turkey and 
Positive Impacts  portfolio helps us to deliver products  Australia. One particular field of our  ce
and Challenges n
a
- Products and Patients that enhance patient care, and meet  work is lysosomal storage diseases,  gl
- Processes a 
the needs of providers in this setting.  which is a family of rare and ultra-ra- t 
- Global Value Chain a
- Corporate Citizenship Immunosuppression after kidney or  re disorders that are a consequence  si 
e
i
liver transplantation is a clear me- of the lack of a specific lysosomal  h
C
03
dical need, and we have advanced  enzyme and which are often asso-
Chiesi’s contribution 
to the UN Sustainable  to patients a novel dosage form of  ciated with progressive declines in 
Development Goals
a widely used immunosuppressant  mental  and  motor  functioning  as 
04 with an enhanced pharmacokinetic  well as dysfunction of other organ 
Annexes
profile which translates into better  systems.
- Impact Report
- Data, Methodology  safety and patients acceptance of  Alpha  Mannosidosis,  an  ultra-rare 
   and GRI Content Index
the treatment. genetic disease presenting a wide 
range of symptoms: the most fre-
Rare diseases
quent are recurrent chest infections 
There are a wide variety of rare di- and problems with hearing loss, di-
seases,  typically  very  severe  and  stinctive  facial  features,  cognitive 
affecting very few patients. Rare di- impairment  and  progressive  mu-
seases are characterised by a broad  scular weakness. Velmanase alfa is 
diversity of disorders and symptoms  the active ingredient in our product 
that vary not only from disease to  representing the first enzyme repla-
disease but also from patient to pa- cement therapy for the treatment of 
tient. Relatively common symptoms  alpha-mannosidosis. The long-term 
can hide underlying rare diseases le- prognosis of this disease is general-
ading to misdiagnosis and delaying  ly poor, with reduced life expectan-
treatment. Indeed, many rare dise- cy. As an important “partner” to this 
ases  have  been  largely  neglected  novel  therapeutic,  we  constantly 
with no effective treatments sought  work to improve diagnosis for these 
or discovered. They are often chro- diseases to facilitate the identifica-
nic, progressive, degenerative, and  tion and access of patients to op-
frequently life-threatening. timal care. A pilot study to improve 
A new Business Unit focused on rare  diagnosis of alpha-mannosidosis is 
diseases has been created in Chie- currently run by Centogene (a spe-
si with a patient-driven perspective.  cialized  diagnostic  company)  with 
The Global Rare Diseases Unit will  Chiesi’s support in Germany, Austria 
adopt a “disease-modifying” or “di- and  Switzerland.  Participating  tre-
sease-resolving” mentality and ser- ating physicians receive a special 
ve the patients and their families  kit  that  allows  blood  samples  of 
with an approach at 360 degrees  patients presenting with symptoms 
that changes the patients’ lives. It is  potentially suggestive of alpha-man-
based in Boston, a key area of biote- nosidosis and send it to the central 