An introduction from  36
our management
- Chairman’s Statement Highlights
- Letter from the CEO
01
Chiesi at a Glance Caring for people informs all of our decisions and shapes our ethical gui-
dance. It is the reason that we exist and it is also at the very core of our 
02
Positive Impacts  Research & Development activities.  s
e
and Challenges g
The pharma industry is expanding rapidly and so is the world in terms  n
- Products and Patients le
- Processes of its approach to global health. This growth raises a question around  al
h
- Global Value Chain c
- Corporate Citizenship the adoption of ethical practices in the development of products, and in  nd 
rethinking how we relate to our patients. We have a moral responsibility  a
s 
03 towards the betterment of society, and that cannot solely happen throu- ct
a
Chiesi’s contribution  p
to the UN Sustainable  gh what we produce but also how we produce it.  m
i
Development Goals e 
v
i
t
The traditional pharmaceutical model is concentrated on molecules and  si
04 o
P
Annexes mechanisms of action, and not always on the patients’ needs and experien-
- Impact Report
ces. Instead, we feel we should start from the patients, to develop the the-
- Data, Methodology 
   and GRI Content Index rapies that they really require.  
Placing patients at the centre is not just a statement. It means finding new 
ways that allow the whole Research and Development process to be guided 
by the needs of those patients: to adopt the patients’ perspective, under-
standing their needs and collecting their feedback to tailor specific thera-
peutic solutions to them. It ultimately means revolutionising the model. 
We focus mainly on respiratory diseases such as asthma, COPD, Cystic 
Fibrosis and neonatal Respiratory Distress Syndrome (RDS). To breathe 
means to live. One of our leading life saving product has been used, sin-
ce its discovery, to treat 5.3 million premature babies suffering from Re-
spiratory Distress Syndrome. 
In 2019, we set-up our Global Rare Diseases unit located in Boston.
It is dedicated to rare diseases because everyone, even the most vulne-
rable patients, must be considered. People affected by rare diseases today 
often have no treatments or limited access to effective treatments.  
 
We began the build-out of a Global Patient Advocacy function to ensure 
the voice of patients, including patient associations, is included in our 
approach to product development.