An introduction from  38
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
Improving patients health is the result of a 
- Letter from the CEO
comprehensive plan of actions that the group is 
01
Chiesi at a Glance implementing. The main initiatives that ran in 2019 
are described below.
02
Positive Impacts  s
e
and Challenges ○ We want to involve and engage  worldwide with our therapeutic solu- ng
- Products and Patients le
- Processes patients from the very beginning in  tions and in 2019 we had 48 addi- al
h
- Global Value Chain c
- Corporate Citizenship designing products and solutions. In  tional registrations of our products,  nd 
2019, thanks also to the inspiration  thus further enlarging geographical  a
s 
03 that our sustainability journey brou- access to our medicinal products. In  ct
a
Chiesi’s contribution  p
to the UN Sustainable  ght us, we reviewed our core proces- 2019 we donated medicines to IHP  m
i
Development Goals ses, including R&D, in order to better  (International Health Partner), equi- ve 
i
t
integrate patients’ perspectives into  valent to an amount of over 700,000  si
04 o
P
Annexes our approach, with the objective of  Euros. In addition, we work together 
- Impact Report
including  this  view  from  the  very  with associations and we promote 
- Data, Methodology 
   and GRI Content Index beginning of the research process.  programmes of early access to our 
Embedding the patients’ perspective  medicines, with a focus on exclusi-
at every stage of drug development  ve Orphan Medicinal Products with 
represents a global commitment and  high unmet needs and no alternative 
a differentiating point for Chiesi.  treatments available (read here our 
In  line  with  this  approach,  in  De- dedicated policy).
cember 2019 we had the chance to  Another important aspect is the ef-
meet a Fabry Patient Advisory Board  fort carried on by the Chiesi Founda-
composed of 14 Fabry disease pa- tion to improve the access to good 
tients coming from 11 EU countries.  quality neonatal care particularly in 
We were able to learn from patients’  sub-saharian  African  countries  as 
experiences and knowledge on dia- well as the management of respira-
gnosis, challenges and lifestyles of  tory conditions in Latin America.
Fabry sufferers. The results of this   
project  can  also  be  beneficial  for  ○ We designed neonatal care pro-
other commercial and clinical pro- grammes  for  healthcare  profes-
cesses on a broader scale. sionals worldwide. In harmony with 
Chiesi’s commitment to foster scien-
During the year, we also started a  tific advancement and medical edu-
collaborative dialogue with EUPATI  cation in neonatology, during 2019 
(European Academia of Patients) a  more than 20 affiliates, including EU, 
major patients association in the EU,  US, China and emerging countries, 
to learn about the organisation, its  organised  healthcare  professional 
objectives, the work done, the activi- training events. Over 450 educatio-
ties in place and to explore collabora- nal sessions were conducted, with 
tion opportunities. 27,000 doctors involved, around cut-
  ting-edge topics relevant for clinical 
○ We want to contribute to impro- practice. 
ving  healthcare  access:  We  are  A  pilot  programme  for  20  nurses 
present in more than 100 countries  working  in  the  Neonatal  Intensive 