An introduction from  41
our management
- Chairman’s Statement Highlights
- Letter from the CEO
01
Chiesi at a Glance At Chiesi, the R&D division is at the very heart of the company. We have 
 PAGINA 38 - chapter 2 - PRODUCT AND PATIENTS
innovation in our DNA and finding solutions is our vocation. We rely on and 
02
Positive Impacts  invest in R&D because we see it as the key to succeed in our work and to  s
e
and Challenges g
realise our mission.  n
- Products and Patients le
- Processes In 2019, we spent 19% of our revenues on Research & Development. We are  al
h
- Global Value Chain c
- Corporate Citizenship the first among the Italian pharmaceutical compUaS 1n4i%es, the second among  nd 
Italian manufaOcthteur Eruin Cgou nctrioesm 30p%anies and fourteenth among European phar- a
s 
03 maceutical companies for investments in research. ITA 13% act
Chiesi’s contribution  p
to the UN Sustainable  We view sharing and transparency as two essential values, and moral obli- m
i
Development Goals gations, for the pharmaceutical community. Sharing clinical trial data and  ve 
i
t
information can be almost as important as running  Rtehste O fc Thlien Wicorald l1 4s%tudies.  si
04 o
P
Annexes Circulating R&D stGuERdMy 1 2r%esults can strengthen the medical community and 
UK 17%
- Impact Report
maximise the beneficial effects that our industry can have on people. 
- Data, Methodology 
   and GRI Content Index Wanting to minimise any possible negative effect of a products’ research 
and development, we are working on a sustainable, future fit, R&D process, 
where sustainability is integrated by design. With this in mind, we adopted 
tools and practices not only  tPoA mGeIaNsAu r4e 3o u- rc imhappatcet,r b 2u t-  aPlsRoO, aDnUdC mTo AreN imD -PATIENTS
portantly, to create products that are sustainable from the outset.
378.3 M€ 38.2%
expenses in  of the total R&D 
Research & Development spending dedicated 
to neonatology, 
rare diseases and 
specific treatments 
Number of marketing authorization approvals 
and relevant regulatory variations (related to patents) 13
Number of granted patents 4,147
Number of active studies 49
Incidence of training 6%
on a total of 252 working days dedicated to training in R&D5   
€ Donations in universities and research centers 5.38 M €
€ €
Scientific collaborations 2.73 M €
5The percentage of training hours dedicated to training is calculated considering all types 
of training (managerial, language and specific R&D training) delivered to the whole R&D 
workforce (worldwide research centers) over the workable hours