An introduction from  42
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
Fostering Research & Development and substantially 
- Letter from the CEO
contributing to the scientific community is the result 
01
Chiesi at a Glance of a comprehensive plan of actions that the Group is 
implementing. The main initiatives that ran in 2019 
02
Positive Impacts  are described below. s
e
and Challenges g
n
- Products and Patients le
l
- Processes a
○ We set up a company policy to im- ○  We  adopted  a  Life-Cycle  Per- h
- Global Value Chain c
- Corporate Citizenship plement Clinical Trial Transparency  spective in our R&D process to in- nd 
a
03 and Data Sharing. We developed a  clude sustainability criteria by de- cts 
a
Chiesi’s contribution  portal where Chiesi clinical trial data  sign, from the very start. To ensure  p
m
to the UN Sustainable 
can be requested by external resear- that the R&D process is sustainable  i
Development Goals e 
v
chers under specific and pre-defined  at  every  stage,  we  set  up  a  Life  ti
i
s
04 requirements. We are fully committed  Cycle Perspective tool that allows  Po
Annexes
to transparency in our conduct of cli- us to evaluate the impact of our 
- Impact Report
- Data, Methodology  nical trials, in accordance with EFPIA  products at all key stages of their 
   and GRI Content Index
requirements and we also want to bo- development, from pre-clinic to indu-
ost transparency and collaboration, al- strialisation. The tool addresses two 
lowing our community to flourish from  main areas: the use of priority che-
the process of knowledge sharing. In  micals  and  process  optimisation. 
accordance with the local legislative  For both areas, it evaluates qualitati-
and applicable requirements on clini- ve aspects and quantitative data by 
cal studies, we also disclose in public  using the best available resources 
registries (e.g. EU Clinical Trials Re- on the market along with CO  calcu-
2
gister), the Clinical Protocol and Stu- lation tools developed in house. It 
dy-related Information and the Sum- also gives a clear perspective of the 
mary Results of those clinical studies  actual impacts of a specific product 
sponsored  by  Chiesi  Farmaceutici.  during a given development phase 
Clinical studies sponsored by Chiesi,  as well as the improvement targets 
their publicly disclosed, study-related  that can be developed over time.
and results-related information, are 
made available on the Chiesi Clinical  ○ We develop partnerships with Uni-
Study Register portal in accordance  versities to attract a broader array 
with the policy.  of competencies. In order to access 
Chiesi  also  contributes  to  the  EF- cutting-edge expertise and knowled-
GCP-EFPIA  Roadmap  Initiative  to  ge in the development of new drugs 
good lay summary practices, a mul- and conduction of clinical studies, 
ti-stakeholder initiative with over 60  we set up ad hoc collaboration with 
participating  organisations,  with  a  world-renowned  international  uni-
focus on defining best practice guide- versities and academic groups. 
lines for the implementation and dis- Partnerships typically take place in 
semination of lay summaries aimed  the early phases of drug discovery, 
to allow non-scientific communities,  as well as during clinical studies. 
including patients, to have a clear view  Such collaborations are an example 
of studies’ details and results. of how we can all benefit from the 