An introduction from  43
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
interplay of competencies in the cre- search  Consortium  (IRDiRC),  an  in-
- Letter from the CEO
ation of new drugs.  ternational effort to coordinate rare 
01 disease  research  involving  funders, 
Chiesi at a Glance
○  We  promote  collaborations  and  pharma  companies,  and  umbrella 
02 round tables at the institutional level.  patient  organisations.  Chiesi  has 
Positive Impacts  s
In our sector, it is crucial to reach the  brought forward, as a leading party  e
and Challenges g
n
- Products and Patients agenda of institutions, industry as- of IRDiRC’s Therapies Scientific Com- le
l
- Processes a
sociations and round tables. This is  mittee, an initiative to map all tools  h
- Global Value Chain c
- Corporate Citizenship a fundamental step towards the pro- (incentives, facilitations, procedures,  nd 
a
motion and advancement of topics  certifications,  practices,  resources,  s 
03 ct
Chiesi’s contribution  related to our core business.  among  others)  available  to  orphan  pa
m
to the UN Sustainable 
For this reason, we have a number of  drug developers in Europe, the USA,  i
Development Goals e 
v
work streams in place, of which we  and  Japan,  providing  ready-to-use  i
t
i
s
04 highlight: plans and checklists for their integra- o
P
Annexes
tion into drug development program-
- Impact Report
- Data, Methodology  — Drug repurposing: Chiesi has repre- mes. The outcome will be of particular 
   and GRI Content Index
sented the European Confederation  help in supporting patient-led and aca-
of Pharmaceutical Enterprises (EU- demia-led initiatives of drug develop-
COPE) in the STAMP - Commission  ment and discovery.
Expert Group on Safe and Timely Ac-
cess to Medicines for Patients -, an  — Chiesi’s experience in orphan drug 
initiative launched by the European  development  and  its  international 
Commission. This supports the crea- efforts in rare disease research were 
tion of a framework outlining the re- included  in  the  EURORDIS  Winter 
purposing of approved drugs for the  School teaching programme: advan-
treatment of rare diseases, as well as  ced training given to “patient exper-
for already genericised products. ts” who have already graduated from 
  the Summer School and are aspiring 
— Supporting patient-led drug deve- to become international patient ad-
lopment: Chiesi is an active member  vocates.
of the International Rare Disease Re-