An introduction from  44
our management
- Chairman’s Statement The Struggles we are Facing
- Letter from the CEO
01
Chiesi at a Glance Broadening our patient-centric ap- tion risk becoming an unsustainable 
proach requires a new value model.  burden  for  governments  who  put 
02
Positive Impacts  As we want to directly engage pa- their population’s health as a priority.  s
e
and Challenges g
tients in our research processes, we  At the same time, drug development  n
- Products and Patients le
- Processes need to organise a consistent and  is an increasingly expensive and rigid  al
h
- Global Value Chain c
- Corporate Citizenship structured plan involving them from  process,  with  increasing  develop- nd 
the early phases through the co-crea- ment time and risk which may result  a
s 
03 tion of therapeutic solutions, but also  unbearable for pharmaceutical com- ct
a
Chiesi’s contribution  p
to the UN Sustainable  at the delivery stage through services  panies. All concerned actors should  m
i
Development Goals and support specifically designed for  find ways to work together in the inte- ve 
i
t
them and their caregivers. Ensuring a  rest of patients, identifying solutions  si
04 o
P
Annexes sustainable transition of this model  that bring equilibrium in this delicate 
- Impact Report
is a point of concern. system.
- Data, Methodology 
   and GRI Content Index
Patients’  needs  may  change  over  We face the global challenge of a 
time, and we must be able to foresee  scientific and technological revolu-
them. Throughout the development of  tion. In companies like ours, shaped 
a product, we need to become able to  around Research and Development, 
foresee the changes that may occur in  technology plays a pivotal role. Inno-
patients’ needs. vations like virtual reality, augmented 
The development of a drug can last   reality, 3D, artificial intelligence and 
10-15 years. This is a very long time  simulations are powerful tools that 
during which the needs of the patients  can radically change both the R&D 
may fluctuate. We need to develop the  process and the patients experien-
capacity to predict the needs of the  ce. However, in order to be ready to 
people in order to keep innovations  embrace  technological  change,  we 
relevant through time. In line with this  need to broaden our knowledge and 
aim, we also started pioneering new  ultimately rethink and restructure our 
projects for timeline reduction throu- interaction with technology.
gh process optimisation and multi-de-
partment task forces. 
Governments, health care systems, 
institutions, organisations and phar-
ma companies should work together 
to improve quality of care, achieving 
a balance in the system.
Increasing healthcare costs and the 
needs of a growing and aging popula-