An introduction from  45
our management
- Chairman’s Statement Focus: Product Quality and 
- Letter from the CEO
Reliability and Patients’ Safety
01
Chiesi at a Glance
02
Positive Impacts  s
e
and Challenges To ensure the best treatment for our  Our plants are constantly subject to  g
n
- Products and Patients patients,  we  are  committed  to  the  inspections and assessments to veri- le
l
- Processes a
- Global Value Chain highest standards of quality, safety,  fy compliance with current legislation  ch
- Corporate Citizenship and reliability of our products. We are  and internal regulations. We also per- nd 
a
03 highly focused on innovation and the  form periodic self-inspections to main- cts 
a
Chiesi’s contribution  fulfilment of our customers’ expecta- tain a high-quality control system. p
m
to the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals tions, while maintaining strict adheren- Drug safety monitoring is an essential  e i
v
ce to regulatory requirements. Chiesi  element of the effective use of medici- ti
i
s
04 o
applies a global approach to the safety  nes and high-quality medical care.  P
Annexes
- Impact Report of our products to ensure a consistent  Patients’ safety is a fundamental requi-
- Data, Methodology 
standard of high quality across the  site for all Chiesi products, and to ensu-
   and GRI Content Index
company. re it, we rely on our pharmacovigilance 
Because Chiesi engages with multiple  and quality policies which are applied 
stakeholders, providing a high-quality  to all company personnel directly or in-
product means delivering a range of  directly involved in this process.
specific expectations: The global approach to patients’ safety 
— Our patients have specific medical  is also driven by a proactive approach 
needs to continuous improvement, according 
— Healthcare professionals focus their  to the principles expressed in the gui-
expectations on product efficacy and  delines released by the European Medi-
safety cine Agency (i.e. Good Pharmacovigi-
— Pharmaceutical regulatory agencies  lance Practices), National Competent 
monitor consistency of operations, ad- Authorities, and by the International 
dressing product safety, efficacy, and  Conference on Harmonization of Tech-
purity, as well as compliance of pro- nical Requirements for Registration of 
duction process with regulatory requi- Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ht-
rements and industry standards. tps://www.ich.org/home.html).
The pharmacovigilance system is ai-
Given the high level of diversification  med at monitoring the benefit-risk pro-
in our product portfolio, we implement  file of the medicinal products, ensuring 
different manufacturing strategies to  liability and appropriate action when 
guarantee the greatest level of quality  necessary for products both marke-
in our production process. All of our  ted or under clinical development. In 
products are produced in accordance  addition, all information relevant to the 
with European (e.g. Good manufactu- benefit-risk profile of our products is 
ring practices) and international stan- fully and promptly reported to the ap-
dards (e.g. US FDA, Sino FDA, Brazilian  propriate authorities and to other con-
ANVISA), in sites authorised by the re- cerned receivers in accordance with 
levant national and international regu- the current legislation.
latory bodies.