An introduction from  48
our management
- Chairman’s Statement Highlights
- Letter from the CEO
01
Chiesi at a Glance The term “biosphere” could be a synonym to life itself. Without the 
biosphere - land, water, air and the energy from the sun - the Earth 
02
Positive Impacts  would be a lifeless, desolate planet. Human life is intertwined with  s
e
and Challenges g
the health of the biosphere more than we think. We can have a huge  n
- Products and Patients le
- Processes impact on the Planet, either in a positive or in a negative way. We opted  al
h
- Global Value Chain c
- Corporate Citizenship for the former. nd 
As a B Corp and a Benefit Corporation, we do not just want to be com- a
s 
03 pliant with the legal requirements, we want to make a significant diffe- ct
a
Chiesi’s contribution  p
to the UN Sustainable  rence with our work, because safeguarding the biosphere contributes  m
i
Development Goals to our greatest goal of improving people’s health.  ve 
i
t
i
s
04 o
P
Annexes Feeling a sense of urgency, we have taken tangible actions at different 
- Impact Report
levels for measuring, reducing and offsetting CO .
- Data, Methodology  2
   and GRI Content Index
Our aim is to reach carbon neutrality incrementing the use of renewable 
energy, adopting a sustainable chemistry approach, and mapping the 
waste from our industrial processes. 
We pledge to achieve carbon neutrality by 2035, well before the 2050 
target set out in the Paris agreement. 
The Paris agreement is the first-ever universal, legally binding global 
climate change agreement, adopted at the Paris climate conference 
(COP21) in December 2015.
This is the highest of ambitions. Highest because it means having a net 
zero carbon footprint on this planet. Hence, it is not enough to correct 
just a few aspects. It requires designing a system able to measure, mi-
nimise and compensate the impact of all of the operations undertaken. 
It is an ambitious aim that requires both the heart - a solid company 
culture - and the mind - the technical capacities. 
Our work does not only address carbon neutrality. We are also con-
fronting other industry-specific necessities. 
So, while we are enthusiastic about this challenge, aware of the ex-
tra-ordinary complexity of this mission, we also recognise the unfore-
seen effort that awaits us.