An introduction from  54
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
- Letter from the CEO GHG emissions intensity11
(Tonnes CO /mln eq. units)
2e
01
Chiesi at a Glance
2019 2018
02
Positive Impacts  s
and Challenges GHG emission intensity (Scope 1 + Scope 2 location based) 170 183 ge
n
- Products and Patients le
l
- Processes a
h
- Global Value Chain GHG emission intensity (Scope 1 + Scope 2 market based) 176 218 c
- Corporate Citizenship nd 
a
s 
03 ct
a
Chiesi’s contribution  11The GHG emission intensity is calculated considering the GHG emissions (Scope 1 and  mp
to the UN Sustainable 
Scope 2) of the manufacturing plants divided by the production volume (reported as mil- i
Development Goals e 
lion of Equivalent Units produced). The production sites considered are: Blois, Santana de  v
i
Parnaiba, Parma (Via Palermo-Via San Leonardo) it
s
04 o
P
Annexes
- Impact Report
This and the above programs reinforce our commitment to the SDG 13
- Data, Methodology 
   and GRI Content Index “Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts”, which fosters the 
integration of actions against the climate change into companies policies, strate-
gies and planning.
○ Waste and water minimisation.  rials used in R&D tests, materials 
Waste and water can be a challenge  used for dressing procedures) and 
in our sector, as processes largely  in offices (i.e. ban of plastic bottles 
depend on stringent quality require- and introduction of drinking water 
ments which are difficult to modify.  dispensers). 
Our primary water consumption co- Many  initiatives  have  been  imple-
mes from manufacturing processes  mented or are underway to actively 
and related cleaning requirements.  involve all of us in the reduction of 
We only use freshwater in all our  waste. The first step was to imple-
processes. These factors are also  ment measurement and control of 
directly correlated to the growth of  water consumption and waste pro-
our business operations. Neverthe- duction to all of our affiliates, so 
less, we established efficient control  to be able to set precise reduction 
systems regarding waste production  targets.  Therefore  in  2019  water 
and disposal as well as water mana- consumption and waste production 
gement.  measurements were extended to the 
We are working to gradually imple- vast majority of our affiliates, whe-
ment  waste  reduction  activities  reas in 2018 they were limited to the 
both  in  manufacturing  processes  manufacturing sites.
(i.e. reduction of quantity of mate-