An introduction from  56
our management
- Chairman’s Statement The Struggles we are Facing
- Letter from the CEO
01
Chiesi at a Glance We pledge to net zero by 2035. plex  and  related  to  one  another. 
This means becoming able to mea- Quantifying how and where in the 
02
Positive Impacts  sure and reduce as much as possible  process waste is produced is of ut- s
e
and Challenges g
all our CO emissions, both the direct  most importance for its minimisa- n
- Products and Patients 2 le
- Processes (those we directly own and control –  tion and reduction of its impact on  al
h
- Global Value Chain c
- Corporate Citizenship Scope 1) and indirect (those coming  the biosphere.  nd 
from the energy provision – Scope 2),  a
s 
03 as well as those from the supply chain  Green chemistry principles are not  ct
a
Chiesi’s contribution  p
to the UN Sustainable  or sources not directly owned or con- always adoptable. m
i
Development Goals trolled by the company (Scope 3). The pharmaceutical industry is a uni- ve 
i
t
Now, we face two challenges. First,  que territory and companies need to  si
04 o
P
Annexes while  for  our  direct  emissions  we  comply with the industry’s stringent 
- Impact Report
can use existing tools to measure  requirements. As of today, it is still 
- Data, Methodology 
   and GRI Content Index our impact, scope 3 presents grea- not  always  technically  possible  to 
ter difficulties in defining the proper  substitute some chemical substan-
perimeter of action and gathering the  ces  while  maintaining  unchanged 
data to measure the carbon footprint  profiles  of  quality,  safety,  efficacy 
effectively.  Secondly,  the  commit- and economics of the products.
ment is long term. We need to ensure 
a high level of attention and engage- It is hard to have direct control to the 
ment throughout the years to come,  whole life-cycle of products. 
fine  tuning  our  strategy  according  In particular, it is difficult to ensu-
to the development of new techno- re that the sustainability principles 
logies and global strategies that will  are applied especially in the end of 
be adopted not only by our sector but  life phase and thus in their disposal, 
also by business at a global scale. since this does not directly depend 
on the company’s practices. For this 
Quantifying and reducing the sour- reason the involvement of key sta-
ces of waste in industrial processes  keholders, such as patients, pharma-
can be difficult. cies and disposal services, in essen-
Industrial processes in the pharma- tial on this topic and for our future 
ceutical sector are extremely com- initiatives.