An introduction from  60
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
Self-Fulfilment and wellbeing of the Chiesi 
- Letter from the CEO
people are the result of a comprehensive plan of 
01
actions that the Group is implementing. The main 
Chiesi at a Glance
initiatives that ran in 2019 are described below. 
02
Positive Impacts  s
e
and Challenges ○  We invested in people’s develop- ○ We designed a programme aiming  ng
- Products and Patients le
- Processes ment. to  raise  awareness  among  Chiesi  al
h
- Global Value Chain c
- Corporate Citizenship We  believe  that  providing  profes- employees on sustainability issues  nd 
sional development plans and offe- and mobilise them to take action. a
s 
03 ring  training  to  improve  individual  Without correct and widespread know- ct
a
Chiesi’s contribution  p
to the UN Sustainable  competencies is ultimately key to  ledge, we cannot act responsibly in  m
i
Development Goals increasing productivity. As part of  our everyday business. We ACT Edu- ve 
i
t
this program, we offered coaching  cational is a training programme de- si
04 o
P
Annexes pathways delivered by external pro- dicated to sustainability topics with 
- Impact Report
fessionals  in  the  Headquarters.  specific training courses on values, 
- Data, Methodology 
   and GRI Content Index These are creative processes that  principles and practices. These cour-
inspire people to generate solutions  ses review the basics of environmen-
to maximise their professional po- tal and social sustainability, and refer 
tential,  develop  managerial  skills,  to the United Nations Sustainable De-
new and complex behaviours, and to  velopment Goals, the B Corp and Be-
optimise performances. We are also  nefit Corporation frameworks, and to 
committed to offering fair opportu- our sustainability strategic plan. This 
nities to all of our people to develop  training project was launched throu-
their  competencies,  according  to  ghout the Chiesi Group to ensure an 
both their attitudes (motivations and  alignment on sustainability values and 
aspiration) and business needs. To  principles among our people. 70% of 
this end, we implemented the Peo- all of our employees around the world 
ple Development global initiative: to  completed the training in 2019.
sustain individual performance and 
foster professional development at  ○ Sustainability criteria were inclu-
all levels. To fulfil our commitment  ded in the rewarding schemes of the 
to  providing  career  development  Group. 
opportunities worldwide, we ran the  To ensure the effective integration of 
2019 edition of the Chiesi Academy  sustainability into our everyday acti-
program,  an  intensive  educational  vities, it is essential to incentivise our 
program involving colleagues from  employees. This raised interest and 
all over the world designed and deli- engagement around the meaning of 
vered in partnership with the interna- sustainability  and  its  applications 
tionally acclaimed Italian business  in  achieving  personal  and  Group 
school, SDA Bocconi. objectives.  From  2019  all  eligible 
People development programs now  employees of the Chiesi Group will 
cover 1,013 employees, 27% more  benefit of a multiplier, based on the 
compared to 2018; and 8 coaching  achievement of the important com-
pathways have been delivered in the  pany objectives, including sustaina-
Headquarters. bility principles.