An introduction from  61
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
○ We are on our way to becoming a  equity in general. We saw that incre-
- Letter from the CEO
Great Place to Work. ased diversity and inclusion contri-
01 Great Place to Work® is a leader in  butes to productivity, creativity and a 
Chiesi at a Glance
the analysis of a company’s work cul- company’s ability to innovate. Ultima-
02 ture which compares the employees’  tely, this contributes to the happiness 
Positive Impacts  perception about their work environ- and success of all employees. es
and Challenges g
n
- Products and Patients ment with HR management policies.  This international committee addres- le
l
- Processes a
Chiesi was awarded the certification  ses 4 main areas: disability, gender  h
- Global Value Chain c
- Corporate Citizenship according to the Trust Index and Cul- diversity,  diversity  among  genera- nd 
a
ture Audit results in Austria, Brazil,  tions and cultural diversity. Our main  s 
03 ct
France, Germany, Mexico, the Nether- goal for 2019 was to raise awareness  a
Chiesi’s contribution  p
m
to the UN Sustainable  lands, Spain, Sweden, UK and the US,  around the topics and to set a plan  i
Development Goals e 
v
and is currently working to extend it.  for 2020. We collected key informa- i
t
i
s
04 4,932 employees were surveyed (90%  tion on the expectations, stereotypes,  o
P
Annexes
of total employees) around three key  advantaged and disadvantaged cate-
- Impact Report
- Data, Methodology  areas:  relationship  with  manage- gories in Chiesi and we identified the 
   and GRI Content Index
ment, good relations with colleagues  needs for future action. 
and pride in their work. 4,403 people  At the end of 2019, Chiesi received 
answered globally, representing an  the “Diversity Leaders Award 2020”, 
89% response rate. They confirmed a  promoted  by  the  Financial  Times. 
high level of fairness related to diver- Chiesi was included among the first 
sity, credibility, respect and, above all,  70 European companies which work 
pride to work for Chiesi. 76% of em- to promote the concept of diversity. 
ployees recognise Chiesi as a great  Chiesi was ranked 1st of the 8 Italian 
place to work. companies.
Chiesi was certified as a Top Em-
ployer  and  Top  Employer  Europe  ○ We have introduced 1 day a week 
– the title assigned to companies  smart working.
that achieve certification in at least  This allows more flexibility and im-
5 European countries – in 11 diffe- proved quality of private life which 
rent countries. In particular, Italy was  in turn increases people’s efficiency, 
awarded the title for the 12th year  confirming the relationship between 
running,  whereas  France,  Germany,  work-life balance and productivity.
the Netherlands, Poland, Spain and 
the UK have confirmed Chiesi as Top  ○ We have created a group of local 
Employer Europe for the 8th conse- and international mentors. 
cutive year. Non-European countries  We are committed to helping our pe-
whose certification has also been re- ople across the globe, starting with 
newed are Brazil, the USA and Russia. new hires, to grow, discovering new 
understanding,  acquiring  abilities, 
○ We have created the Diversity & In- and changing perspectives. Mento-
clusion Committee. ring is a wise and rich use of existing 
We aim to apply best practices for  knowledge and resources, accelera-
diversity  and  inclusion  to  ensure  ting the transition of people into new 
employee retention, motivation and  professional  roles.  It  improves  un-