An introduction from  62
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
derstanding of business and allows  tis, cardiovascular diseases and neo-
- Letter from the CEO
cross-fertilization among functions,  plasms.
01 markets and generations.  We have nourished and strengthe-
Chiesi at a Glance
We have 11 certified mentors in Edi- ned our company culture, engaging 
02 tion 1 in our HQ and are rolling out to  people around the B Corp values and 
Positive Impacts  s
our Affiliates. sharing the social and environmen- e
and Challenges g
n
- Products and Patients tal standards and practices, through  le
l
- Processes a
○ We enhanced our health and wel- which we operate, with specific cour- h
- Global Value Chain c
- Corporate Citizenship lbeing program. ses and events.  nd 
a
It is essential to provide our employe- s 
03 ct
Chiesi’s contribution  es with the tools and knowledge re- ○ We engage with universities to at- pa
m
to the UN Sustainable 
quired to enhance their quality of life.  tract young talents.  i
Development Goals e 
v
The first fundamental step was to  The  success  of  our  company  de- i
t
i
s
04 pursue the LEED Gold certification  pends  on  the  collective  decisions  o
P
Annexes
for our new Headquarters for 2020.  made every day by our people. This 
- Impact Report
- Data, Methodology  LEED is the most recognised and ad- is why it is fundamental that we are 
   and GRI Content Index
vanced  certification  developed  for  able to attract the most talented and 
better buildings, not only in terms  motivated  persons,  while  creating 
of energy performance, but also for  the conditions and company culture 
the impact on the wellbeing of the  which allow them to thrive. This is a 
occupants providing, among others,  distinctive trait that we want to pre-
cutting edge solutions to improve fre- serve over time. We set up a series 
sh air, reduce volatile organic com- of collaborations with the universi-
pounds, and to optimise temperature  ties of Parma and Milan to engage 
and lighting regulation.  students in our business case, the 
In Italy, we also involved our employe- meaning and implications of being 
es in a number of programmes en- a pharmaceutical company and the 
compassing nutrition, better work-life  details of the therapeutic areas that 
balance, stress reduction, counselling  we focus on. This is done with the 
for new mothers, time saving servi- concepts of Shared Value and Bene-
ces, yoga, life coaching, anti-smoking  fit Corporation in mind. In this way 
campaigns, and safety at work.  we are able to raise awareness and 
We implemented a health program- interest among the most famous uni-
me,  aimed  at  preventing  diseases  versities and, at the same time, gain 
such as chronic obstructive bronchi- “fresh and direct” feedback about us.