An introduction from  69
our management
- Chairman’s Statement Highlights
- Letter from the CEO
01
Chiesi at a Glance Value chains are the backbone of every business model. Throughout 
our value chain, we involve many stakeholders upstream and down-
02
stream, including pharmacies and hospitals, from the transformation of 
Positive Impacts  s
e
and Challenges raw materials and components till the delivery of our products to those  ng
- Products and Patients le
who need them, our patients. It is a crucial process, characterised by in- l
- Processes a
h
--  GColorbpaorl aVtea lCuiet iCzehnasihnip terdependence of various actors, where positive impact on both people  nd c
and the environment can either be maximised or weakened.  a
s 
03 As a B Corp and a Benefit Corporation, Chiesi feels the need to ensure  ct
a
Chiesi’s contribution  p
that the entire chain of processes and activities related to its operations,  m
to the UN Sustainable 
i
Development Goals be them primary or support activities, responds to the social and sustai- e 
v
i
t
nable criteria Chiesi is committed to. i
s
04 o
P
Annexes During 2019, our starting point to implement such an approach was our 
- Impact Report supply chain. We have the ambition to set up and run a supply chain 
- Data, Methodology 
   and GRI Content Index where purpose and positive values determine every stage. We envision 
a system where each supplier collaborates with us, moving in the same 
direction with the same ethics.
But here lies the complexity. Turning supply chains into sustainable 
ecosystems requires a holistic, bottom-up view, where each of our 15 
thousand plus suppliers adhere to and act according to thvea sluaem ce hvaaliunes. 
This is why we have designed and developed a relationship framework 
in partnership with our suppliers: Chiesi’s Code of Interdependence.
OUR VALUE CHAIN
5 R&D Centers 3 Production Plants Logistics, Warehouse
& Distribution Thousands of Hospitals
Patients
in +100
Countries
Worldwide
Thousands 
of Pharmacies
R&D Service  Clinical trials About 40
providers and  3rd party
academic partners Logistics
Hundreds of Wholesalers
API & Packaging Virtual Plants About 70 
Materials commercial 
distributors
Business 
Development
Partners
+ 15,000 Partners & Suppliers