An introduction from  71
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
Taking a leading role towards a sustainable value 
- Letter from the CEO
chain is the result of a comprehensive plan of 
01
Chiesi at a Glance action that the Group is implementing. The main 
initiatives that ran in 2019 are described below.
02
Positive Impacts  s
e
and Challenges g
○ With our suppliers, we co-created  resources and much more. We belie- n
- Products and Patients le
- Processes the first SDG-enabled Code of Con- ve this exercise can enhance accoun- al
h
- Global Value Chain c
- Corporate Citizenship duct to define shared guidelines. We  tability towards our common purpose  nd 
named it Code of Interdependence. In  and values.  a
s 
03 the spirit of maximum collaboration,  ct
a
Chiesi’s contribution  p
to the UN Sustainable  we decided to involve about 70 of our  Code of Interdependence co-creation  m
i
Development Goals e 
strategic supply partners to design this  in numbers: v
i
t
new code of conduct. We evolved the  si
04 o
P
Annexes concept of a supply chain into that of  All affiliates engaged worldwide
- Impact Report
an ecosystem, recognising that each  + 120 people actively involved
- Data, Methodology 
   and GRI Content Index of us is indispensable and can bring  + 70 strategic suppliers involved
value to the other through a process of 
mutual learning and co-evolution. ○ We integrated sustainability in re-
  lation to our suppliers and in the cri-
Throughout  this  process,  we  were  teria for their selection. If we want to 
inspired by the most progressive mo- accelerate sustainable development, it 
vements and frameworks beyond our  is essential that our entire supply chain 
field:  Pharmaceutical  Supply  Chain  evolves with us. This is why, in 2019, 
Initiative (PSCI), B Impact Assessment  we introduced specific sustainability 
by B Lab, International Labour Organi- topics into our suppliers’ qualification 
zation (ILO) and the United Nations’ Su- process. This  allowed  us  to  gather 
stainable Development Goals (SDGs).  essential information, enhancing our 
 Together, we solidified the behaviou- knowledge and monitoring capabilities 
ral principles to be used in guiding the  of a partner from a sustainability per-
work of each of us. This makes the  spective, going beyond the concepts 
Code an expression of the combined  of price-quality-service as only drivers 
effort put in throughout 2019 in defi- of the relationship. Sustainability con-
ning the way we operate in the world  cepts will also become part of new 
and with each other. For this reason, it  suppliers’  evaluation  processes.  We 
was named accordingly: The Code of  have also inserted sustainability prin-
Interdependence. ciples into specific tenders’ evaluation 
This document also valorises the ap- procedures.  
proach of our suppliers towards su-
stainability, and provides a set of to- ○ We want to have a positive impact 
pics that shall be relevant for all of us,  on the economic development of the 
such as quality of products, safety of  community, sourcing also from local 
employees, the use of environmental  suppliers. In 2019, in Italy, Chiesi sour-
12More details are explained in the Annexes (pp. 139 - 140)