An introduction from  72
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
ced 46.3% of its goods from national  and resources to support the achieve-
- Letter from the CEO
suppliers. The Group total spending  ment of the sustainable development 
01 on local suppliers represents 59.2%  goals at a global scale.
Chiesi at a Glance
of global supply expenses, keeping 
02 the overall impact well above 50%12. ○ We are designing our sustainability 
Positive Impacts  s
assessment tool for logistic opera- e
and Challenges g
n
- Products and Patients ○ We are members of the PSCI initia- tions. Our Logistics department be- le
l
- Processes a
tive because the greatest challenges  gan a comprehensive analysis of the  h
- Global Value Chain c
- Corporate Citizenship can only be overcome together. We  overall impact of our global logistic  nd 
a
strongly believe in the power of col- network, aiming to design a model al- s 
03 ct
laboration and sharing as a strategic  lowing the evolution of logistics, gui- a
Chiesi’s contribution  p
m
to the UN Sustainable  means  for  industry  advancement.  ded by sustainability principles. Logi- i
Development Goals e 
v
This is why, in 2018, we joined the  stics is one of the operational areas  i
t
i
s
04 Pharmaceutical  Supply  Chain  Initia- where improvement is not only pos- o
P
Annexes
tive (PSCI) network. PSCI is a group  sible but it can also determine larger 
- Impact Report
- Data, Methodology  of  pharmaceutical  and  healthcare  results, either in terms of improving 
   and GRI Content Index
companies  that  have  the  common  efficiency on “classic” variables (such 
aspiration of improving at the social,  as cost, service level and quality), or 
health, safety and environmental per- on specific new environmental and 
formance in the pharma sector supply  societal objectives that we decided 
chain. We believe that PSCI members  to integrate into our operational stan-
can share knowledge and expertise  dards. In 2019, we started a project 
across our industry to drive complex  aimed at creating organisational con-
global change more effectively than  ditions, specific know-how, analysis 
any one organization alone. models and information infrastructu-
This program reinforces our commit- re with the goal of designing our new 
ment to SDG 17: “Strengthen the me- logistics model that will measure its 
ans of implementation and revitalise  environmental  and  social  impact. 
the global partnership for sustainable  This model, to be finalised in 2020, is 
development”. a key pillar of the more general 2035 
In essence, this fosters and mobilises  Carbon Neutrality goal.
multi-stakeholder  partnerships,  sha-
ring knowledge, expertise, technology 