An introduction from  73
our management
- Chairman’s Statement The Struggles we are Facing
- Letter from the CEO
01
Chiesi at a Glance Supporting suppliers in fully com- provide services or secondary ma-
mitting to the B Corp values requi- terials. However, we want to extend 
02
Positive Impacts  res time. We share our experience,  our  process  of  mapping,  analysis  s
e
and Challenges knowledge and values around envi- and evaluation to also include direct  ng
- Products and Patients le
- Processes ronmental and social practices and  suppliers - those who are responsi- al
h
--  GColorbpaorl aVtea lCuiet iCzehnasihnip standards with our suppliers in order  ble for the production and supply of  nd c
to ensure the alignment of our appro- raw materials and ingredients. In the  a
s 
03 aches. However, we understand the  pharma sector, supplies are strongly  ct
a
Chiesi’s contribution  p
integration of sustainable principles  regulated,  applying  new  criteria  to  m
to the UN Sustainable 
i
Development Goals also requires time to absorb new va- the acquisition and use of materials  ve 
i
t
lues and activate change in contexts  is therefore difficult; they are under  si
04 o
P
Annexes which can be different in terms of  strict and standardised control and 
- Impact Report size, history and core business. This  changes can take years. 
- Data, Methodology 
   and GRI Content Index is one of the challenges we face and 
requires  redesigning  the  engage- Adopting  the  interdependence  ap-
ment of our stakeholders. Nonethe- proach with other key players in the 
less, this approach also requires a  value chain. In 2019, the main sta-
continuous dialogue which can bring  keholders involved, in terms of inte-
new opportunities from the encoun- gration  of  sustainability  principles, 
ter of diverse realities. were our suppliers. From now on, we 
believe we will gradually be able to 
Measuring  the  environmental  and  adopt this model along our entire va-
social impact of direct suppliers is  lue chain. We have already started to 
major challenge in the pharma sector. work in other areas such as distribu-
The ideal global value chain can as- tors, logistics, business partners, as 
sess the impact of both direct and  well as Merger & Acquisition proce-
indirect  suppliers  on  sustainability  dures, where sustainability has also 
criteria. Today, we are only able to  been  integrated  into  due  diligence 
assess indirect suppliers - those who  processes.