An introduction from  77
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
Having a positive impact on the territory is the 
- Letter from the CEO
result of a comprehensive plan of actions that the 
01
Chiesi at a Glance Group is implementing. The main initiatives that 
ran in 2019 are described below.
02
Positive Impacts  s
e
and Challenges g
○ With an organic vision, we stra- companies,  citizens,  public  institu- n
- Products and Patients le
- Processes tegically guide all the projects that  tions,  schools  and  other  actors  of  al
h
- Global Value Chain c
- Corporate Citizenship Chiesi promotes in the Parma terri- the city, also bringing new ideas and  nd 
tory, our hometown, through a dedi- projects aimed to create value in our  a
s 
03 cated Committee – the Committee  community. Sectors of interest of Par- act
Chiesi’s contribution  p
to the UN Sustainable  for Social and Community Develop- ma, Io Ci Sto! are food, culture, educa- m
i
Development Goals e 
ment Activities. We know our prospe- tion and innovation, tourism and leisu- v
i
t
rity is linked to that of our community  re, and environmental sustainability. si
04 o
P
Annexes and we care about the development 
- Impact Report
of our local territory. We focus on  ○ We support Parma as Italian Ca-
- Data, Methodology 
   and GRI Content Index Parma, where we are based, while  pital of Culture. In 2020 the city of 
creating a model of company-com- Parma, where our Headquarters is 
munity interaction that can be used  located, was awarded the honour of 
as a reference by all of our internatio- being the Italian Capital of Culture 
nal affiliates. thanks to its cultural heritage and 
We focus on three specific areas of  the peculiar and unique partnership 
intervention: Education, on both he- between the public and private sec-
alth and environmental topics; Deve- tor that characterises our territory. 
lopment, intended as social, cultural,  Indeed, many actors, including com-
economic  and  environmental  pro- panies, worked together to achieve 
sperity of the community; Emergen- this important objective. This pro-
cies, support for environmental disa- gram is an opportunity for the city to 
sters such as floods or earthquakes  promote its economic, cultural and 
or other critical situations such as  social growth and to increase the at-
the global health emergency caused  tractiveness to its citizens, workers 
by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.  and tourists. As a founder and mem-
This approach is extended to Chiesi  ber of the association “Parma, io ci 
Affiliates worldwide, with tools and  sto!”, Chiesi played a key role in the 
guidelines to set up the same pro- nomination of Parma with ideas and 
grammatic  strategy,  while  preser- economic sponsorship, both in 2019 
ving the peculiarities of local com- and in 2020. In addition, we also 
munities. promoted specific projects, such as 
“Pharmacopea”, which aims to re-
○  We  are  among  the  founders  of                        discover the chemical and pharma-
                                Born in 2016, this  ceutical identity of the city of Parma 
association aims to catalyse concrete  and to enhance the value of historic 
actions for the sustainable develop- locations linked to this identity, such 
ment of the territory of Parma. The  as old pharmacies and the botanical 
association creates networks among  gardens. 