An introduction from  78
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
○ We are part of the team that fo- shes both in our new Headquarters 
- Letter from the CEO
sters the submission of Parma Eu- and in our Research Centre.
01 ropean Green Capital in 2022. In 
Chiesi at a Glance
collaboration  with  other  partners,  ○  We  launched  the  Volunteering 
02 like the Parma municipality and the  Month. Since 2015 we have promo-
Positive Impacts  s
Foundation  for  Sustainable  Deve- ted the “Volunteer Week” in our Hea- e
and Challenges g
n
- Products and Patients lopment, we actively contributed to  dquarters in Parma and other corpo- le
l
- Processes a
the drafting of the environmental  rate volunteering activities across all  h
- Global Value Chain c
- Corporate Citizenship policies dossier, and in particular to  our branches. During this week, our  nd 
a
the definition of specific actions on  employees work for local non-profit  s 
03 ct
Chiesi’s contribution  how to reduce emissions, develop a  organisations. In 2019, in Parma, we  pa
m
to the UN Sustainable 
climate adaptation plan, reduce car  extended this period to the “Volun- i
Development Goals e 
v
mobility, create green conservation  teer Month” involving up to 620 peo- i
t
i
s
04 areas, improve air quality, reduce  ple with 2480 hours of volunteering  o
P
Annexes
noise pollution, water consumption  in different projects: environmental 
- Impact Report
- Data, Methodology  and waste production. protection, multiculturalism, poverty 
   and GRI Content Index
It is a great opportunity to make  reduction, and support to the most 
Parma an innovative and virtuous  vulnerable groups such as the elderly.
community. 
○ We celebrated the We ACT Day, 
○ We are contributing to the 11-ki- on 25th September, at our Research 
lometre green belt to protect Par- Centre. We ACT Day was born from the 
ma. The topic of air pollution repre- desire to inform and engage our em-
sents  an  important  environmental  ployees on the topics of sustainability. 
issue for the territory of Parma and  It is a moment to share what we can all 
in general the Emilia Romagna re- do to contribute towards sustainable 
gion.  In  Parma,  the  busy  A1  mo- development. The day is a celebration 
torway, a major source of pollution,  of the Sustainable Development Go-
runs alongside to the city. Chiesi is  als defined by the 2030 Agenda of the 
an active part of the design and de- UN on 25th September 2015. In 2019, 
velopment team of the “Green Kilo- we celebrated the We ACT Day in our 
metre” project. The initiative, initially  Research Centre, organised as a full-
focused on the creation of an 11 km  day festival involving employees, par-
green barrier along the motorway,  tners,  local  non-profit  associations, 
has now evolved into a much bigger  institutions and many guests sharing 
project of urban reforestation of the  themes, projects, activities, and confe-
Parma province. Through a partner- rences about the 9 specific SDGs that 
ship between the municipality and  Chiesi decided to adopt.
the land owners, The Green Kilome-
tre aims to reduce air and noise pol- ○  We  launched  the  “No  Longer 
lution and, even more importantly,  Alone”  project  (‘Progetto  Non  Più 
to  raise  environmental  awareness  Soli’), addressed towards the elder-
among citizens. In 2019, we acti- ly recently discharged from hospi-
vely contributed by planting around  tals. Chiesi collaborates with local 
6,500 trees, plants, shrubs and bu- associations  and  institutions,  such 