An introduction from  82
our management
- Chairman’s Statement ○ The Chiesi Foundation’s work aims  “Survive  and  thrive”.  Transforming 
- Letter from the CEO
to have a positive impact on patient  care for every small and sick new-
01 care by enhancing the quality of care  born”. Towards the end of 2019, we 
Chiesi at a Glance
for patients living in low- and midd- inaugurated a new area dedicated to 
02 le-income countries. The Chiesi Foun- the Kangaroo Mother Care Therapy in 
Positive Impacts  dation is committed to improving the  Burundi: a simple, safe and efficient  es
and Challenges g
n
- Products and Patients health and alleviating the suffering of  therapy for premature and low-birth  le
l
- Processes patients with respiratory and neonatal  weight babies consisting of continuo- ha
- Global Value Chain c
- Corporate Citizenship diseases in those countries where the  us skin-to-skin contact. nd 
a
company does not have a commercial  The GASP (Global Access to Spiro- s 
03 ct
reach, and access to quality of care is  metry Project) is focused on the de- a
Chiesi’s contribution  p
m
to the UN Sustainable  not always guaranteed. Our work is dri- velopment of specific clinical skills  i
Development Goals e 
v
ven by a broader definition of patients  for the diagnosis and management  i
t
i
s
04 and territory which goes well beyond  of chronic respiratory diseases such  o
P
Annexes
our direct lines of business.  as asthma and chronic obstructive 
- Impact Report
- Data, Methodology  We  established  international  coope- pulmonary  disease  (COPD),  throu-
   and GRI Content Index
ration programs in African and South  gh  the  introduction  of  spirometry 
American countries to implement two  capacity  and  training  activities.  In 
different models.  addition to this, the programme fo-
The NEST (Neonatal Essential Survi- cuses on patient education through 
val Technology) model aims to reduce  medical training, an integral part of 
neonatal mortality rates by improving  the project. In 2019 we up-scaled the 
the quality of neonatal care in coun- project in Peru and we consolidated 
tries  with  limited  resources,  paying  the one in Guyana. 
specific attention to premature, sick,  We also work to increase the aware-
unwell and small for gestational age  ness and engagement of Chiesi colle-
babies. In 2019, the case study of the  agues, organising specific events like 
NEST model in Burkina Faso was pu- the World Prematurity Day which takes 
blished in the WHO – UNICEF report  place every year on 17th November.