An introduction from  85
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
Increasing the transparency and ethical practices 
- Letter from the CEO
of business is possible through various corporate 
01
governance activities. Some relevant aspects are 
Chiesi at a Glance
described below.
02
Positive Impacts  s
e
and Challenges ○ We implemented a Cooperative ap- first Italian pharmaceutical company  ng
- Products and Patients le
- Processes proach with the tax authorities, on top  to enter this programme in 2019 - as  al
h
- Global Value Chain c
- Corporate Citizenship of other means, for a fair distribution  of today in Italy there are only about  nd 
of value in the countries we operate.   25 companies that have signed up to  a
s 
03 For a few years, the OECD (Organiza- this requirement, being recognised, in a  ct
a
Chiesi’s contribution  p
to the UN Sustainable  tion for Economic Co-operation and  broad sense, as Best Contributors. m
i
Development Goals Development) has been pointing out  Such achievement comes on top of  ve 
i
t
that tax audits for large taxpayers are  other  long-lasting  tax  risk  manage- si
04 o
P
Annexes highly inefficient because companies  ment  frameworks  we  already  have 
- Impact Report
have to keep track of multiple data  in place, such as the Advanced Price 
- Data, Methodology 
   and GRI Content Index and  documents  and  tax  authorities  Agreements with the Italian Tax Agen-
must focus on an immense amount of  cy, with whom we share and agree the 
data. Thus, the OECD has suggested,  remuneration of transactions with our 
to all jurisdictions, enacting coopera- affiliates in various countries. Such 
tive  approaches  between  taxpayers  arrangements implies that Chiesi Italy, 
and tax administration in order to tra- as long as it sets the distribution of re-
de disclosure and certainty within a  muneration to its affiliates – and, ulti-
frame constituted by a new, open and  mately, the taxes due by them in their 
fair approach. We decided to embrace  respective countries – in compliance 
this landmark shift in the relationship  with the agreement with the Italian Tax 
with tax authorities, with the ultimate  Agency, will not be subject to tax audits 
objective of having the tax authorities  on this topic for a period of up to five 
as partners in a transparent exchange  years.  These  agreements  recognise 
of information. Therefore, in 2014 we  and certify Chiesi as a reliable taxpayer 
already  voluntarily  participated  in  a  both as Chiesi Italy and with respect to 
pilot project involving 84 Italian com- the transactions towards its affiliates.
panies, but only the top 10 in terms of  But we went further. At the end of 2019 
turnover were selected. When the pilot  we were selected to participate in ICAP 
project was turned into a structural pro- (International Compliance Assurance 
gramme, in 2018 we applied for the Co- Programme), an innovative worldwide 
operative Compliance Regime held by  pilot project where multinational en-
the Italian Tax Agency. The programme  terprises disclose certain selected tax 
required Chiesi to establish an inter- data with a group of Tax Authorities, 
nal tax risk detection, regulation, ma- carrying out an open and frank combi-
nagement and control system in line  ned tax risk assessment. The ultimate 
with  the  OECD  requirements,  which  goal of this pilot project, following a se-
for us implied the need to engage 13  ries of meetings to take place in 2020 
departments and reviewing 65 internal  at the OECD where Chiesi’s position 
procedures and guidelines. Such an  will be scrutinised, will be to draft agre-
effort allowed Chiesi to become the  ements not only with the Italian Tax 