An introduction from  86
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
Agency, but with 11 other authorities  CFO. An initial risk mapping with a top-
- Letter from the CEO
from countries in which Chiesi is pre- down approach was carried out, which 
01 sent. Such arrangements will reward  led to the identification of 36 specific ri-
Chiesi at a Glance
Chiesi’s open approach with the bene- sks, 16 of which were classified as top 
02 fit of no tax audits, for the years 2017- risks and have undergone specific risk 
Positive Impacts  s
18, for the respective affiliates active in  monitoring activities. But we always  e
and Challenges g
n
- Products and Patients those countries. aim to improve, so this is why we have a  le
l
- Processes a
pipeline of activities for 2020 to enhan- h
- Global Value Chain c
- Corporate Citizenship ○ We are transparent in the transfers  ce the synergies with all departments in  nd 
a
of value with Healthcare professionals  their risk management activities. s 
03 ct
Chiesi’s contribution  and organisations. Since 2015 (first pu- pa
m
to the UN Sustainable 
blication 30 June 2016), in accordance  ○ Corporate Governance in Chiesi is  i
Development Goals e 
v
with the rules set forth within the Far- exercised through various bodies, be- i
t
i
s
04 mindustria (The Association of Phar- ginning with our Board of Directors, and  o
P
Annexes
maceutical Companies and a member  the Board of Statutory Auditors. The lat-
- Impact Report
- Data, Methodology  of  Confindustria)  Code  of  Conduct,  ter has a duty to verify compliance with 
   and GRI Content Index
which implemented the EFPIA’s “Code  the law and the company’s by-laws, and 
on the Disclosure of Transfers of Va- to ensure the adequacy and reliability 
lue from Pharmaceutical Companies  of  our  accounting  system.  Our  cur-
to Healthcare Professionals and Heal- rent Board of Directors consists of 7 
thcare Organisations”, we disclose any  members. Of these, 6 are male and 1 
transfers of value between Chiesi and  is female (86% and 14% respectively). 
healthcare professionals and organi- 6 directors are over 50 years old and 
sations. This information can be found  account for 86% of the Board, while the 
on Chiesi’s websites.  other 14% is represented by a member 
between the ages of 30 and 50 years. 
○ Risk Management: from complian- In order to ensure compliance with all 
ce to business continuity. As a mul- laws and regulations, Chiesi set up a 
tinational  company  operating  in  the  Corporate  Compliance  Committee, 
pharmaceutical sector, we have a great  which oversees the interpretation and 
responsibility: our choices have a rele- implementation  of  the  Group’s  Gui-
vant impact on the community, and we  delines on Ethics & Compliance, and 
must ensure the continuity of our ope- the Supervisory Body (Organismo di 
rations in order to take care of our pa- Vigilanza), an independent committee 
tients. This is why Risk Management is  appointed directly by the Board of Di-
also a key pillar of Chiesi’s strategy. We  rectors. As a Benefit Corporation, since 
follow a holistic approach in managing  2018 Chiesi has had an Impact Com-
the risks affecting the group and its sta- mittee dedicated to the monitoring and 
keholders. In 2018, we started a path to  management of purposes of common 
adopt an integrated risk management  benefit. Beyond fulfilling the require-
system and unify the individual efforts  ments of laws and regulations, we have 
of the various departments. developed  and  adopted  several  pro-
With this in mind, the Enterprise Risk  cedures and guidelines which set out 
Management function was created in  common requirements with which all 
2019, reporting directly to the group’s  companies in the Group must comply.