An introduction from  89
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
Actively and positively contributing to both the 
- Letter from the CEO
European and the international agenda is the result 
01
of a comprehensive plan of actions that the Group 
Chiesi at a Glance
is implementing. The main initiatives that ran in 
02
2019 are described below.
Positive Impacts  s
e
and Challenges g
n
- Products and Patients le
l
- Processes ○ Chiesi is proud to represent the  adults over 45. This is why, at Chiesi,  ha
- Global Value Chain c
- Corporate Citizenship European Confederation of Pharma- along with other partners, we sup- nd 
a
ceutical Entrepreneurs as a member  port the #ShowLeadership campaign  s 
03 ct
of the Policy Board of the European  that brings together the motivation  a
Chiesi’s contribution  p
m
to the UN Sustainable  Joint Programme on Rare Diseases  of patients, carers, healthcare pro-
i
Development Goals e 
(EJP RD). We believe in a collabora- fessionals  and  decision-makers  to  iv
t
i
04 tive and effective use of data and  overcome the situation, to make the  os
P
Annexes
resources to speed-up the research  difference on prevention and care of 
- Impact Report
- Data, Methodology  in finding cures for rare diseases,  allergy, asthma and COPD. 
   and GRI Content Index
so as to dramatically decrease pa-
tients’ suffering. As one of the 130  ○ We want to empower the members 
institutions  from  35  countries,  as  of the European Parliament to act 
members of the EJP RD programme  on behalf of patients when needed. 
we actively contribute to two main  Despite the facts and figures, asthma 
goals:  to  improve  the  integration  and respiratory diseases are often 
and social impact of research on  dismissed  as  “second-class”  dise-
rare diseases through a European/ ases. For this reason, for years, EFA 
world-wide sharing of research and  (European Federation of Allergy and 
clinical data and know-how; and to  Airways Diseases Patients’ Associa-
further develop an efficient model  tions) has been running the secreta-
of financial support for all types of  riat of the EP Interest Group on Aller-
research on rare diseases. gy and Asthma, with the objective of 
raising awareness and putting the-
○ We support #SHOWLEADERSHIP:  se diseases high in the EU political 
a  patient-led  campaign  aiming  to  agenda. In 2019, new events in the 
raise  awareness  and  support  200  European Parliament were organised 
million European people affected by  involving members of the EP, EU Of-
allergy and airways diseases. Allergy  ficial and international bodies such 
and asthma are major, widely preva- as the WHO (World Health Organiza-
lent chronic diseases, affecting more  tion), in order to continue to raise the 
than 200 Million Europeans. They are  profile of asthma and respiratory con-
the most common diseases in chil- ditions in the political agenda. 
dren, often lasting a lifetime. The he-
althcare costs of asthma in Europe  ○ A wake-up call for Health Techno-
alone amount to 72.2 billion annual- logy Assessment (HTA) bodies and 
ly.  Chronic  obstructive  pulmonary  payers  on  assessing  and  valuing 
disease (COPD) is the third leading  person-centred  therapeutic  inno-
cause of death in the world among  vations. Person-centred therapeutic 