An introduction from  90
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
innovations can have a dramatic and  peutic  innovations  meaningfully  in 
- Letter from the CEO
concrete impact on patients’ quality  their evaluation of new treatments. 
01 of life and wellbeing. For this reason,  We, as Chiesi, are committed to inclu-
Chiesi at a Glance
we were among the main supporters  ding all stakeholders in the decision 
02 of the EFPIA sponsored study “As- making of such critical processes.  
Positive Impacts  sessing Person-centred Therapeutic  es
and Challenges g
n
- Products and Patients Innovations.  Are  usage  experience  ○ Our commitment in Rare Disea- le
l
- Processes a
and  outcome  benefits  from  Per- se was awarded. Black Pearl Award  h
- Global Value Chain c
- Corporate Citizenship son-Centred Therapeutic Innovations  is an annual event, held in Brussels,  nd 
a
appropriately  valued?”. The  aim  of  to recognise the outstanding achie- s 
03 ct
this initiative is to ask for the further  vements  and  exceptional  work  of  a
Chiesi’s contribution  p
m
to the UN Sustainable  inclusion of the patient experience  people making a difference for the  i
Development Goals e 
v
through Health Technology Asses- rare disease community. Chiesi was  i
t
i
s
04 sment (HTA) evaluation, pricing and  awarded for its strong commitment,  o
P
Annexes
reimbursement decisions. This is a  its  support  to  policy  development 
- Impact Report
- Data, Methodology  critical and sensitive area because  and for bringing to market a wide ar-
   and GRI Content Index
many HTA bodies and payers do not  ray of treatments, including products 
fully consider person-centred thera- for extremely rare diseases.
The Struggles we are Facing
A global citizenship strategy must be locally applicable.
We want to develop a corporate citizenship strategy that can maximise our in-
tervention as an expression of our civic sense in every country we operate. This 
global strategy must be as efficient and effective as possible to avoid wasting 
time, energy and capital. It must also be able to be decoded and understood in 
different, culturally-specific contexts, allowing the global approach to be transla-
ted at a local level.