An introduction from  10
our management
- Chairman’s Statement Our Purpose: Why we are 
- Letter from the CEO
in Business
01
Chiesi at a Glance
02
“We aim to offer patients innovative solutions to solve 
Positive Impacts  e
c
and Challenges their needs, through a fully sustainable and evolved  an
- Products and Patients gl
- Processes business model” a 
t 
- Global Value Chain a
- Corporate Citizenship si 
e
i
h
C
03 Chiesi was born in 1935 when Gia- twined  and  interdependent.  There 
Chiesi’s contribution 
como  Chiesi,  a  chemist  and  the  cannot be a sustainable future if we 
to the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals founder  of  the  company,  opened  don’t take this into account. With 
his small laboratory in Parma, Italy.  this in mind, the concept of health 
04
Annexes As the company expanded, it faced  acquires a broader meaning for our 
- Impact Report many internal and external challen- company as we commit to achie-
- Data, Methodology 
   and GRI Content Index ges including the Second World War  ving  a  fully  sustainable  business 
that destroyed parts of the buildin- model, acting as a force for good by 
gs. But this did not deter the ambi- creating shared value: contributing 
tious researcher. Rather it solidified  to the health of people and of the 
his calling to find and develop novel  planet, while continuing to grow as 
therapeutic solutions for the health  a company.
of the population, growing the com-
pany not only in size but also in re- The Benefit Corporation model was 
silience, and continuously adapting  introduced  in  2010  in  the  United 
to the changes of the context. Today  States. In January 2016, Italy beca-
Chiesi is proud to have grown into 29  me the first country outside of the 
Affiliates operating around the wor- US to introduce the model. In 2018,  
ld with 3 manufacturing sites and 5  we became a Benefit Corporation, 
research centres. adopting a new legal form under the 
Italian (Law no. 208/2015) and US1 
Just as our 85-year old heritage con- law, by revising the Articles of In-
tinues to guide us, we are still able  corporation and including, together 
to recognise the changes in the wor- with  the  objective  of  generating  
ld and not only adapt to the current  profits for shareholders, the additio-
challenges but also to actively con- nal objectives of creating a positive 
tribute in a positive way, adopting  impact on our patients, people, par-
an approach that is consistent with  tners, the environment and the com-
the nature of our business: to care  munities in which we operate. This 
for people and the society and to  approach creates value for multiple 
make the world feel better. stakeholders, in addition to provi-
ding  financial  returns  to  the  sha-
We  are  aware  that  we  live  in  an  reholders. Benefit Corporations are 
ecosystem where economic, social  the expression of an evolved vision 
and environmental factors are inter- and  incorporate  a  double-purpose 