An introduction from  91
our management
- Chairman’s Statement Focus: Business Ethics and 
- Letter from the CEO
Compliance
01
Chiesi at a Glance
02
Positive Impacts  s
and Challenges Chiesi is committed to encouraging  ties. This Model 231 defines admini- ge
n
- Products and Patients the highest level of respect, transpa- strative responsibilities and rules to  le
l
- Processes a
rency and ethical behaviour in mana- avoid unlawful behaviour and iden- h
- Global Value Chain c
- Corporate Citizenship ging professional interactions among  tifies the role and responsibilities of  nd 
a
03 all our employees and with our part- the Surveillance Body13. The latter is  cts 
a
Chiesi’s contribution  ners and customers.  entrusted with the power of super- p
m
to the UN Sustainable 
Development Goals “Being a reliable company” is both a  vising the correct application of the  e i
v
core value and a motivating goal that  Model itself and refers the outcomes  ti
i
s
04 requires a deep commitment to ethi- of such activity to the Board of Direc- Po
Annexes
cal behaviour by all of our people. To  tors on a periodic basis.
- Impact Report
- Data, Methodology  support this goal, in addition to what  The Model 231 includes the Code of 
   and GRI Content Index
is explained in the chapters above, we  Ethics and Conduct, which expres-
have developed and adopted several  ses the company’s commitment to 
procedures and guidelines which set  operate in accordance, not only with 
out common requirements with whi- the laws and regulations currently in 
ch all companies in the Group must  force, but also with certain principles 
comply, beyond fulfilling the require- and  rules  of  ethical  conduct. The 
ments of laws and regulations. Code is binding on all bodies, em-
ployees, consultants, collaborators, 
Legality Rating promoted by the Ita- agents and, on a more general level, 
lian Competition Authority (AGCM).  all third parties acting on behalf of 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. has been  the company.  
awarded the maximum Legality Ra- In 2005, Chiesi adopted the Group 
ting score of 3 stars by the Italian  Code of Ethics and Conduct, which 
Competition Authority (AGCM). at the time was implemented by our 
main affiliates and, in 2010, was en-
Organisational, 
dorsed by all Chiesi affiliates worl-
management and control 
dwide. In addition, a number of Euro-
model
pean affiliates implemented internal 
Over the past few years, we have  control systems shaped on legal re-
established tools and processes to  quirements similar to the Model 231.
prevent, monitor and respond to any  The Model 231 is available to all 
cases of non-compliance. In 2003,  employees via intranet (C-Share). It 
pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 
is subject to periodic review and re-
No. 231/2001, applicable across the 
vision, and any change is promptly 
whole Italian territory, we adopted 
communicated to all employees. 
an Organisational, Management and 
In 2012, we released our Group Guide-
Control Model (known as a “Model 
lines on Ethics and Compliance, whi-
231”) that clearly defines our ethical 
ch provides a common framework of 
commitments and responsibilities in 
rules and aligns governance proces-
the conduct of our business activi-
ses and systems, while ensuring that 