An introduction from  92
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
- Letter from the CEO
all key risks are identified and mana- interacting with Healthcare Professio-
01 ged effectively in all countries. Chie- nals (HCPs) and Healthcare Organisa-
Chiesi at a Glance
si’s  Corporate  Compliance  Commit- tions (HCOs). In 2016, we adopted a 
tee, whose members (from the legal,  Corporate Anti-Bribery Policy, directly 
02
Positive Impacts  human resources and internal audit  applicable  to  all  Companies  of  the  es
and Challenges g
functions) are appointed by the Board  Group, which provides a set of guide- n
- Products and Patients le
l
- Processes of Directors, oversees implementation  lines on how to recognise and avoid  a
h
- Global Value Chain c
- Corporate Citizenship of these guidelines. In 2015, our com- improper behaviours. nd 
a
mitment to compliance resulted in the  Corporate Internal Auditing is in charge  s 
03 ct
formal assignment of responsibilities  of carrying out risk assessments and  a
Chiesi’s contribution  p
m
to the UN Sustainable  in this area to an autonomous and in- audits for all Chiesi Group affiliates.
i
Development Goals e 
dependent function: the Group Com- v
i
t
04 pliance Office. Internal Auditing osi
P
Annexes A  Confidential  Reporting  System  Since 2008, a Corporate Internal Audit 
- Impact Report
- Data, Methodology  (“whistleblowing  system”),  establi- function is incorporated and provides 
   and GRI Content Index
shed in 2017, is a direct communica- with operational autonomy and orga-
tion channel that allows employees at  nisational  independence  from  ope-
all levels to report behaviours, such as  rational and business functions. The 
a conflict of interest or other miscon- Head of Internal Auditing is a member 
duct, that might damage the Group’s  both of the Surveillance Body and of 
business or reputation. the Corporate Compliance Committee 
  and provides auditing activities and in-
Anti-corruption vestigation support to them when ne-
Our  work  requires  ongoing  profes- cessary. The audit plan and projects in 
sional  engagement  with  healthcare  it are executed in consideration of the 
operators and scientists. We pay con- operational risks, as well as the com-
siderable attention to the appropriate  pliance and ethics risks in any geo-
management of these relationships,  graphy in which the auditing activities 
to exert the highest level of control  are executed. Therefore, anticorrup-
to prevent improper or unlawful beha- tion and transparency considerations 
viours.  are built into the design and execution 
We have implemented several mecha- of auditing activities.
nisms to this end. In 2015, we adop- Audit results are timely and extensi-
ted a Corporate Standard Operating  vely communicated to management. 
Procedure (SOP) on interactions with  Periodic meetings are held with the 
healthcare  professionals  and  heal- Surveillance  Body,  Corporate  Com-
thcare organisations, which defines a  pliance Committee, Statutory Auditors, 
set of binding principles – in line with  and External Auditors in order to share 
IFMPA14 and EFPIA Code of Conduct  information, results and insights. The 
requirements – with which any com- Board of Directors is briefed on audit 
pany in the Group must comply when  activities and related results annually.
13In Italian, “Organismo di Vigilanza”.
14The International federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Associations.