An introduction from  97
our management
- Chairman’s Statement SDG Action Manager
- Letter from the CEO
01
Chiesi at a Glance The result is a new, publicly available online tool, the SDG Action Manager (SDG 
AM): an actionable management platform for businesses to assess, compare 
02
Positive Impacts  and improve their performance in order to deliver tangible progress on the Su- s
l
a
and Challenges stainable Development Goals by 2030. Go
- Products and Patients
t 
- Processes Companies are now supported in managing their impact on the SDGs throu- n
e
- Global Value Chain m
ghout their operations, supply chain, business model, and collective action, whi-
- Corporate Citizenship p
o
le monitoring their risk of negative impact. el
v
03 The tool incorporates the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact and the Su- De
Chiesi’s contribution  e 
to the UN Sustainable  stainable Development Goals (SDGs) and was built through a rigorous process  bl
a
Development Goals n
of information and feedback of a range of stakeholders, including experts in  i
a
t
corporate sustainability, civil society, UN, and academia. s
04 u
S
Annexes Before being officially launched, the SDG AM tool went through a beta testing  N 
- Impact Report U
- Data, Methodology  phase, during which more than 60 businesses from around the world, networ- he 
   and GRI Content Index ks or organisations with expertise in one or more of the SDGs contributed as  o t
t
advisors.  n 
o
i
Chiesi, due to their experience in the field, was invited to contribute to the deve- ut
b
i
lopment of SDG number 3 - Good Health and Well-Being - by testing the metric  r
t
n
sets as they were rolled out, prototyping the online platform through develop- o
c
s 
ment, and piloting features as they were completed. i’
s
e
i
h
C
Chiesi’s Results
We decided to be one of the first companies in the world to adopt the new tool 
and this section reports the results of our very first analysis. These scores resul-
ted from a self assessment approach based on internal company information 
and interpretation of the SDG Action Manager content. The performance is not 
validated by B Lab, but the use of an internationally shared tool still allows us 
to spread our best practices worldwide, responding to a core value of the 2030 
Agenda, as well as comparing our performance against other companies.
The analysis has produced 3 results:
1. The Baseline
The Baseline module is a starting point that includes cross-cutting issues that 
apply to all SDGs prior to diving deep into individual SDGs. The baseline consists 
of a series of questions about how companies can proactively manage specific 
issues related to the 10 principles of the UNGC. It then returns an overview of 
the company’s commitment to social and environmental issues, such as com-
mitments to human rights, positive labour practices, environmental manage-
ment systems, and good governance.