An introduction from  98
our management
- Chairman’s Statement
- Letter from the CEO
01
Chiesi at a Glance
02
Positive Impacts  s
l
a
and Challenges o
G
- Products and Patients
t 
- Processes n
e
- Global Value Chain m
- Corporate Citizenship p
Chiesi’s baseline evaluation returns interesting results. The main takeaways are  o
el
v
03 summarised in the following points: e
D
Chiesi’s contribution  e 
to the UN Sustainable  — Baseline 65.4%: our organisation shows a general well-rounded commit- bl
a
Development Goals n
ment to the most relevant social and environmental global issues. A solid set  ai
t
s
04 of processes and a structured organisation are already helping us in ensuring  u
S
Annexes a proactive focus on these matters. Nevertheless, we have identified additional  N 
- Impact Report U
- Data, Methodology  activities that we will consider in our improvement plans.  he 
   and GRI Content Index o t
— Human Rights: the analysis shows the most room for improvement in the  n t
o
Human Rights area. Our operations and facilities are located in areas where  ti
u
b
human rights are generally granted and we did not feel the need to establish  i
r
t
n
extra control models. The analysis brought to our attention possible additional  o
c
measures that will ensure further protection of human rights over time. s 
i’
s
e
i
h
2. Our progress in the 9 SDGs we are committed to C
In addition to the baseline analysis, Chiesi’s performance was measured against 
4 different sub-topics for each of the 9 SDGs we are committed to: 
— Business Model: how Chiesi’s business model can contribute to each SDG;
— Internal Operations: how Chiesi can contribute to each SDG within itself;
— Supply Chain: how Chiesi manages its supply chain’s contributions to each SDG;
— Collective Action: this section recognises the broader opportunities Chiesi 
can engage in outside of the business model, operations, and supply chain to 
contribute to each SDG.
Scoring System
Overall performance on a given SDG is reported as a percentage in order to provide a consistent 
and comparable benchmark across all companies, as not all sub-topics are applicable to every 
company. Performance on sub-topics are reported on a point-s based system in order to more 
directly track progress and improvement over time. Sub-topics are equally weighted relative to one 
another for each module. Each question has its own score value, which is viewable on the question 
itself and the user earnssn credit for the positive practices it answers and improves upon. 
Furthermore, when evaluating the company’s performance, it is important to consider how 
business activities, practices, outcomes, and lack of information may be posing a risk to the 
targets of an SDG, in addition to positive contributions. To assess this, each SDG-specific module 
features a section focused on risk. This section does not assume actual negative impact, based 
on the answers, and is scored through coloured flag ratings, as you can see below.