Our approach to sustainability Lamberti
Our Stakeholders and material topics Sustainability Report 2019
Identification of relevant topics Materiality matrix and definition of the list of 
material topics
First, a group of potentially relevant aspects for the company and its stakeholders were 
identified. The identification included the analysis of internal documentation (code 
Creating the materiality matrix is the fourth step taken by the Group to define its 
of ethics, financial statements and explanatory notes, institutional website, etc.) and 
material topics. The matrix is the result of the combination of the workshop and the 
external documentation (sector studies and publications). In addition, we performed a 
stakeholder questionnaire analysis. Among the topics evaluated, only those with the 
benchmarking analysis of industry best practices at national and international levels.
highest social and environmental impact as well as those with the highest relevance for 
stakeholders were considered essential for the Sustainability Report. In order to select, 
a materiality threshold of 4 (on a scale from 1 to 5) was chosen.
Evaluation of  topics relevant for the Group
Product innovation and intellectual property
5,0
Product sustainability
Environmental compliance
In order to prioritize the relevant sustainability aspects, we organized a workshop 
Effluents and waste management
with the participation of representatives of Corporate Management, including the 
Relation with local communities Ethics and integrity
Shareholders.
4,5
Product safety
During the workshop, the representatives of each area expressed their point of view  Greenhouse gas emissions
S Economic performance
R
regarding relevant issues for the company.
E Responsible resource consumption
D 4,0
OL Production optimization
Employee welfare and health 
H
E and safety
K 3,5
A
T Enhancement, skills development 
S and talent attraction
R 
O 3,0
F
E 
Evaluation of topics relevant for the Group’s stakeholders C
N
A 2,5
V
E
The materiality analysis process involved almost 900 stakeholders, divided into  L
E
7 categories: employees, clients, suppliers, banks, insurance, trade associations,  R 2,0
universities and authorities.
Stakeholders were requested to evaluate material issues through an online 
1,5
questionnaire, asking them to assess relevance, on a scale from 1 to 5, regarding issues 
identified as materials. The questionnaire achieved an excellent overall response rate 
of 64%, with a remarkable 73% of the suppliers, 63% of the employees and 62% 
1,0
of the clients. In addition, all universities as well as 2 out of 3 trade associations and  1,0 1,5 2,0 2,5 3,0 3,5 4,0 4,5 5,0
banks/insurances responded to the materiality analysis questionnaire. 
RELEVANCE FOR LAMBERTI
Economic responsibility & Compliance Products & services Environmental responsibility Social  responsibility
30 31