Governance and economics Lamberti
Governance and compliance  Sustainability Report 2019
Compliance and risk 
management system
Code of Ethics Precautionary  have to lead by example and 
ensure their daily behavior is 
Principle 
coherent with the rules of the 
The Board of Directors approved 
Code of Ethics. In order to raise 
the latest version of Lamberti’s 
The Responsible Industrial  awareness regarding the Code, 
Code of Ethics on September 
Manufacturing is one of Lamberti  the group guarantees free  In both 2019 and 2018, seven 
12, 2019. The Code of Ethics 
funding values. Therefore, all  access to all documentation  Unlawful behaviors comprising  of eight Lamberti’s Italian sites 
(hereinafter also referred to as 
the reasonable precautionary  regarding the organizational and  were assessed for risks related 
“Code”) provides a summary  one or more types of the crime 
measures are taken, even  management model and the  to corruption in compliance 
of the rules of conduct on  for which the organization can 
beyond statutory requirements,  Code of Ethics with the 231 Model, which 
which the Group has always 
when planning, developing and  be considered liable, pursuant  corresponds to 88% of our 
based its activities, according 
launching products as well as  Whistleblowing to Italian Legislative Decree  Italian operations. At the Group 
to Lamberti’s longstanding 
in plant design and operation.  level, no confirmed incidents 
231/01; 
values and rules of behavior. 
The target is to minimize and to  of corruption were recorded 
The purpose of adopting the  We have set up a whistleblowing 
avoid negative consequences  during the past two years. 
Code is to meet the needs and  system, a system that provides 
on the environment and on all  Lamberti S.p.A. did not detect 
expectations of all those who  employees with a way to report 
the stakeholders (e.g. customers,  any non-compliance with law 
interact with Lamberti, inside and  unacceptable conduct while 
employees, local communities). and regulations in the social and 
outside the Group.  protecting the whistleblower’s 
economic areas. In 2020, we plan 
identity and their right to 
Supervisory Board to assess our Spanish subsidiary, 
The recipients of the Code of  confidentiality. The Group 
then extend the assessment to 
Ethics must comply, and ensure  has also introduced specific 
our other affiliates over the next 
that others comply, with the  In compliance with the  penalties applied in the event 
years.
contents of this Code, with  organizational and management  of retaliatory or discriminatory 
no exceptions or distinctions  model for the prevention of  acts to the detriment of the  Behaviors that, although not 
Moreover, also in the 
whatsoever, in Italy or abroad.  crimes listed in the Italian  whistleblower. constituting any type of crime, 
environmental area no significant 
Acting for the benefit of the  Legislative Decree 231/2001 
were performed in violation of  financial penalties have 
Group does not justify any party  (hereinafter “231 Model”) and  We promote the adoption of 
the rules of ethics and conduct,  been registered for violation 
from behaving in contrast to the  any related laws, Lamberti  measures designed to prevent, 
of environmental laws and 
principles and rules of conduct  appointed a Supervisory  discover and communicate  procedures, protocols and 
regulations at Group level, while 
established by Lamberti. All  Board. It coordinates its  unlawful conduct and/or  provisions contained within the 
there is only one case of non-
recipients must operate in a way  activities with other bodies and  behaviors carried out in breach 
231 Model and the Code of Ethics.  monetary sanction.
that ensures the satisfactory  departments responsible for  of the ethical principles adopted 
application of these regulations  the correct implementation  by the Group, and encourage our 
both within the Group and in  and operation of control and  legal representatives, directors, 
general, by all its stakeholders.  monitoring. In performing its  managers and employees to 
duties, the Supervisory Board  report any breaches that may 
also collaborates with company  come to their knowledge. 
bodies and managers that  Matters subject to reporting are: 
36 37