About Lamberti  Lamberti
Letter to the Stakeholders Sustainability Report 2019
We are a global
scientific company.
We are a global company producing chemical specialties. 
The interaction of multiple scientific frameworks is our specific wealth.
Our experience stems from over a century of history (Lamberti was founded in 1911). From the initial  We have fostered a network of  solutions for various fields  In close cooperation with our 
affiliation to the textile industry, we have learned the value of being part of structured ecosystems. Over  relationships, a rich wellspring  of application: agriculture,  stakeholders, we choose to 
of experience that gives value  geoscience, ceramics,  create a sustainable legacy for 
time, we have invested in industrial plants and laboratories in diverse locations becoming active part 
to our people providing training  surfactants, science of surfaces,  the future. 
of advanced districts specialized in textiles, leather, ceramics, petroleum and agriculture. The cultural 
practices and structures,  food industry and personal 
environments of those productive eco-systems have benefited the growth of our scientific knowledge as 
continuous learning and  care.  The results of our work 
well as our proficiency cluster. 
innovation in methods.  are not simply formulations 
or services, but sets of skills, 
Our company organization has  capabilities, visions, developed 
been designed as a systemic  with dedication and attention 
pattern that links knowledge,  for our customers and projected 
experience and research with  to satisfy the needs of our 
continuity in manufacturing and  customers’ customers.  
new values in the markets. 
We combine advanced  We are committed for being 
technologies and tailor-made  agents of change, reducing 
approaches, methods and  consumption of non-renewable 
systems. When knowledge  raw materials by investing in low-
opens new paths and engages an  impact, up-cycled or recyclable 
array of different competences,  materials, thus designing de 
the connection activates  novo, a new generation of 
sustainable new warps and  products that suit our changing 
wefts among nature, people and  world and its future – that means 
society.  beauty and sustainability.
We design and develop  We believe the alliance 
processes while ensuring human  between industry, human 
safety and protection of the  activity and the environment, 
communities: our technologies  fosters respectful science and 
generate value, while minimizing  good chemistry.  We consider 
the impact on the environment.   our users, clients and suppliers 
We supply worldwide industries  as substantial factors of our 
with customized chemical  competitiveness.
2 3