Governance and economics Lamberti
Governance and compliance  Sustainability Report 2019
Crisis Management
As the safety and wellbeing  The Lamberti Group operates  In a  crisis situation, the Lamberti 
of our employees and of  with a core Crisis Management  Group follows 5 guiding 
the communities where we  Team whose responsibility is to  principles: Transparency, 
operate are among our highest  establish and maintain a “crisis  Accuracy, Efficiency, Speed 
priorities, over the past five  sensitive culture”. It reports  and Responsibility. We 
years we supplemented our  to the Board of Directors and  are committed to timely, 
Risk Management activities           According to  oversees preparedness and  clear communication to all 
with a comprehensive crisis  Patrick Balletto,  training at all levels of the  stakeholders, to providing care to 
our General Manager
preparedness approach.  organization. It also guides the  those directly affected by events 
Group’s response to unexpected  and to full cooperation with all 
critical events. Its yearly  stakeholders. 
preparedness programs follow 
a continuous improvement 
“Crisis management is today an integral part 
approach aimed at constantly 
of our safety culture and of our responsibility 
“raising the bar” and refining 
existing procedures and 
towards stakeholders including our employees, 
stimulating the ability to “think”.
local communities, customers and suppliers. 
Crisis Management has become 
a strategic top down activity that 
It requires a prepared, competent and close-
directly involves the Group’s 
knit team, as well as advanced planning and 
upper management. 
ongoing training to anticipate and mitigate the           According to 
Patrick Trancu, our 
consequences that a crisis could have”. crisis management 
consultant,
“Over the past few years, we have witnessed 
a deep cultural change across the entire 
organization. Within a company, already 
strongly grounded in safety, we have been 
able to develop a «crisis sensitive culture» that 
permeates the entire organization”.
38 39