Governance and economics Lamberti
Governance and compliance  Sustainability Report 2019
Sharing knowledge
Covid-2019 Employees, trade unions, local 
authorities including mayors, 
As part of our ongoing crisis  Patrick Balletto strongly 
Although events fall beyond  local communities, suppliers 
preparedness approach, we  emphasized the relevance of the 
the timeframe of this report, it  and customers were constantly 
organize an annual closed- seminar: 
seems appropriate to mention  updated with company 
door seminar called “Sharing 
our response to the Covid-2019  decisions and initiatives. Health 
Knowledge”. Its objective 
Coronavirus pandemic. Although  related measures were quickly 
is the open sharing of crisis 
Lamberti’s crisis management  introduced company-wide to 
preparedness and management 
framework has been extensively  protect employees and their 
experiences and best practices 
“The chemical industry has a very complex 
tested in simulations and applied  families, often ahead of national 
among like-minded companies 
and selected individuals. We  value chain. Through this seminar, we  to minor incidents in the past,  and regional directives and 
the Coronavirus emergency has  regulations. PPE was sourced 
recently organized one such 
shared how we manage a crisis with our key 
recently provided an opportunity  ahead of time and supplied to 
seminar with strategic partners 
with the objective of raising  partners with the aim of contributing to the  to use it “in action”. both our employees and local 
authorities. We also established a 
awareness of the importance of 
development of their own crisis preparedness 
Our Crisis Management  psychological support telephone 
crisis preparation and sharing 
our approach to managing  efforts. The seminar was extremely useful for us  Team responded rapidly and  line free of charge for employees 
worked throughout the crisis  in Italy and their families. 
unexpected critical events. 
too; it has strengthened key aspects of our own 
to anticipate events. Direct 
crisis management approach and procedures”. lines of communication were  Our company’s response to the 
established and maintained  Covid emergency has drawn 
with all relevant stakeholders.  praise from all stakeholders.
Patrick Trancu added his 
thoughts on the seminar: 
“Crisis preparedness and management is a 
process of continuous learning and “Sharing 
Knowledge” marked a key milestone on our 
path. Sharing knowledge with both partners 
and experts has been invaluable. It has also 
given us some food for thought for further 
improvements.”
40 41