Product responsability Lamberti
Product Sustainability Sustainability Report 2019
Product
Not Hazardous products
Sustainability
2018
Sustainable development is an  1. Products non-hazardous to  2019
integral part of our Vision and  the environment
Values and embraces the three  2. Natural Based Products
dimensions of our Group: the  3. Environmental properties 
86% 87% 88% 89% 90% 91% 92% 93% 94% 95%
company, the economy and the 
environment.  
% of products Not Hazardous for Environment %of products Not Hazardous for Environment - PRODUCTION VOLUMES
We specifically focus on strategic 
areas to measure and enhance 
the sustainability of our products:
Natural Based products
Products non-hazardous
The use of natural origin  chosen to apply the criteria of the 
to the environment
materials is a key aspect of  ISO 16128 standard: Guidelines 
our strategy. We are following  on definitions and criteria for 
The protection of the  Now, more than 90% of the  different approaches: using palm  natural and organic cosmetic 
environment is a great challenge  products we manufacture are  oil, palm kernel oil, and their  ingredients and products. Our 
for any chemical company.  classified non-hazardous to the  derivatives that are certified by  evaluation started with the 
Throughout these years,  environment. The percentage  the Roundtable on Sustainable  GeoScience, Agriculture and 
Lamberti has paid increasing  increased in the last 3 years and  Palm Oil (RSPO), and improving  Personal Care portfolios, and 
attention to the ecotoxicological  we intend to maintain this trend  bio-based raw materials for the  presented the following results: 
properties of its products in order  in the future. The same index for  manufacture of polymers. 36,5% of the total number of 
to reduce the number and the  raw materials decreased slightly  products were recognized to 
quantity of products hazardous  in the same period, but there is  Among the several available  be natural, while in terms of the 
to the environment. still room for improvement. options to verify the naturalness  volume of natural products, the 
index of our products, we have  total amount now reaches 53,9%. 
Natural products
 % of Natural Product (according to ISO 16128) vs Total number of products  36,5% 
% volume Natural Product (according to ISO 16128) vs Total volume of products  53,9% 
The results of 2019 are in line with the previous year.
52 53