Product responsability Lamberti
Product Sustainability Sustainability Report 2019
Environmental Properties -  Lamberti’s sustainable products 
experimental activity and product lines
Lamberti completed,  Chemical products are always  company, the economy and 
successfully and on time, the  present in every person’s daily  the environment. We are a 
third and final registration phase  life. Indeed, chemistry is a  leading company in the Italian 
of the European chemicals  valuable ally in the development  chemistry market, second only to 
regulation (REACH) for all  and evolution of sustainable  Germany at the European level. 
substances produced in annual  sectors, including solar energy,  Lamberti has been designing 
volumes between one and one  electric cars and biofuels.  and producing new and more 
hundred metric tons, with a  sustainable products and lines, 
number of scientific activities to  Sustainable development is an  among which our most important 
complete a relevant dossier  for  integral part of our Vision and  ones:
over 50 substances. Values embracing the three 
dimensions of the group: the 
Our analytical laboratories 
and above all, Lamberti’s 
Ecotoxicological Laboratory 
(GLP  certified) supported  ESACOL®, a line obtained from processing raw materials from renewable plant-
these activities . Around 50  based sources, with applications in the fields of construction and paints. The 
studies for biodegradation and  Group uses guar gum (Cyamopsis tetragonoloba L.), for the creation of high 
ecotoxicity  are carried out every  viscosity fluids. The process of transformation from guar gum to its derivatives 
year in our Ecotoxicological  does not require high trunk or old trees.
Laboratory. Other toxicological 
and ecotoxicological data were 
obtained with experiments and 
in-silico evaluations to comply 
ESAFLOR® and CESMETIC®, lines obtained from processing guar 
with international regulations 
gum with applications in the cosmetic field. 
and internal assessments with 
particular emphasis on the 
environmental impact of our 
products.
EUCAROL  AGE®, a line obtained from processing raw materials from renewable 
plant-based sources, with applications in the areas of cleaning and agrochemicals. 
The raw materials in this line  have good biodegradability with limited impact on 
the environment in rinse-off cosmetics.
6 Good Laboratory Practice.
54 55