Product responsability Lamberti
Product Safety and Stewardship Sustainability Report 2019
Product Safety
and Stewardship
The safety and the  In 2019 alone, we put more  The commitment to product  We also support:    We aim to do so by adopting  In the years 2018 and 2019, 
environmental impact of  than 500 new products on  stewardship is embodied in our  •  the Global Product  certifications that follow different  no fines or penalties resulting 
our products is monitored  the market, providing a set of  Responsible Care® charter  Strategy (GPS) of the ICCA,  aspects of production, product  from incidents of non-
throughout production, starting  HSE information as  part of our  and follows the initiatives of  worldwide standards and  characteristics and are primarily  compliance with regulations 
from research and development,  procedure aimed at carrying out  the International Council of  best practices to improve  focused on environmental  or voluntary codes concerning 
all the way to the customer’s  an internal risk assessment, an  Chemical Associations (ICCA).  the safety management of  impact (toxicity, environmental  information and labelling of 
application. We follow a number  established company procedure,  We also ensure uniformly  chemical substances;   fate, wastewater, etc.) along with  products and services were 
of procedures and guidelines  and verifying more than 150  high standards for product  •  the development and  workers’ and consumers’ safety.  recorded at a Group Level. 
based on Health, Safety and  specific parameters for safety,  stewardship worldwide. In some  certification for Good  These standards also consider  In addition, in  2019, the Group 
Environment (HSE) regulations. reactivity, chemical and physical  cases, we have committed to  Manufacturing Practices  the circularity of products,  did not report any incidents of 
properties, and transportation.  voluntary initiatives, which go  (GMP) for the manufacture  starting from material safety  non-compliance concerning 
We are committed to minimizing  The number of items evaluated  beyond local legal requirements. of cosmetic ingredients;  and material reutilization,  the health and safety impacts of 
the negative effects of our  in 2019 grew considerably in  •  the CEFIC REACH Dossier  specifically targeting natural raw  products and services. 
products on the environment,  comparison to those examined in  More than 99% of our product  Improvement Action Plan7  material sources and production 
health and safety along the value  2018, increasing from 215 to 367. portfolio is covered by safety  , as part of the continuous  processes, and reducing the 
chain – from development to  data sheets, for hazardous as  improvement of the quality  use of technologies with high 
disposal.  well as non-hazardous materials,  of REACH dossier, which  environmental impact. 
available in Italian, English and all  represents our current 
pertinent languages. and future commitments,  Procedures, instructions, IT tools 
investing relevant human  are regularly revised, assessed 
and financial resources. and updated to verify the 
  compliance of the information 
Safety Data Sheets
Finally, taking into account our  provided with mandatory, 
2019 2018 portfolio and the request of the  internal and stakeholder rules 
customer application sectors,  and  requirements. Internal and/
Number of safety data sheets prepared  our vision is to certify products  or external auditing is carried out 
1,593 1,602
during the period
in the areas of textile/leather,  to verify the completeness of 
and cosmetic ingredients.  safety data sheets and the results 
Number of products for which a Safety Data  are then included in the Health, 
780 789
Sheet was prepared during the period
Safety, Environment and Quality 
Report, which is overseen by the 
Number of products for which an HSE
367 215 Group General Management.
evaluation was made
58 7  https://cefic.org/our-industry/reach-dossier-improvement-action-plan  59