Environmental responsability Lamberti
Emission of greenhouse gases Sustainability Report 2019
Emission of greenhouse 
gases
We are fully aware of the impact  In terms of risks, climate change  In terms of opportunities,  Auditing the existing overall  These efforts represent a  Finally, the reduction of emissions 
that climate change may have  leads to physical disruptions  in tackling issues related to  energy sources within a given  clear opportunity to tackle the  is an opportunity to strengthen 
on our Group. For this reason,  due to severe weather events,  climate change, we plan to  period provides us with a  negative effects of climate  the concept of sustainability in 
we aim to contribute to a more  harming not only our Group, but  implement or have already  clear understanding of our  change and anticipate future  our employees. Indeed, in our 
sustainable society. We also  also our workforce. These events  applied numerous actions.  current emissions. This data  sustainability requirements.  sustainable approach we will 
acknowledge that both risks and  include storms and hurricanes,  We believe that achieving a  makes it possible to establish a  In order to make this liability  ensure that all future talents 
opportunities may arise from  air and water pollution, fires, sea- positive environmental impact  sustainable plan to increase the  transparent and pertinent to  who join Lamberti will strive to 
the implementation of a more  level rise, extreme temperatures  should not be limited to our own  percentage of renewable energy  our Group, it is essential for us  contribute to the environmentally 
sustainable approach to our  and variation in seasonality.  actions; our Group sees this as  sources utilized. We also intend  to share these initiatives with  friendly outcomes of our Group. 
business. This awareness has  All these phenomena may  an opportunity to generate a  to implement additional activities  our workforce and our other 
led us to design a new alliance  negatively affect our operations.  comprehensive plan, so that also  to improve water management  stakeholders, regarding the  We are committed to further 
between industrial behavior and  Furthermore, the transition to a  critical stakeholder groups, such  through specific data-driven  responsibilities related to the  reduce our Greenhouse Gas 
the environment, thus fostering  low carbon economy requires  as raw material suppliers can be  commitments. Our goal is to  Sustainable Development Goals  (GHG) emissions, by optimizing 
respectful science and good  stricter carbon legislation; not  involved. Our sustainable plan is  source most raw materials from  and our long-term objective to  our processes and our use of 
chemistry. being compliant with existing  composed of two phases: environmentally sustainable  fight climate change. energy. 
and future regulations poses  - phase I: creation and  suppliers. 
a clear risk to the company’s  development of a dialogue 
business. pertinent to type of stakeholder
- phase II: implementation 
350.000
of the options regarding the 
environmental impact of  295.686
300.000
operations, including availability 
282.833
of key resources (depletion 
250.000
issues)  
0.25 tCO e/t
2 0.26 tCO e/t
200.000 2
150.000
71.339 76.327
100.000
50.000
2019 2018
Emission: Scope 1+2 Tons of product manufactured (t)
(location-based) (t)
70 71