Lamberti
People and social responsibility
Sustainability Report 2019
Employees welfare and well-being
Employees welfare
and well-being
Pushing boundaries to new  Working together, we bring out  Our Program: Responsible Care Program (see  the risks of injury or illness that 
frontiers (Employees as  the best in ourselves. 25° Rapporto Responsible Care,  an employees may encounter. 
people) issued by Federchimica). Specifically, 58% of the group 
Our Group entrusts workers with  employees are covered by an 
Our primary duty to our  We have a strong program for  tasks that take their skills and  occupational health and safety 
We actively encourage people  We are committed to promoting 
employees is to provide them  our employees’ safety, which  health into account. In addition,  management system that has 
to work together, which is also  a stimulating work environment 
with a safe working environment.  is our highest priority. We  we make sure that only workers  been audited by an external 
one of our core values. Working  based on entrepreneurship 
Safety has always been at the  constantly analyse and keep  who have received adequate  party, while a further 15% of the 
together in cross-functional  and autonomy, where people 
top of our agenda and we aim to  track of the main potential risks  instruction and specific training  employees are covered by a 
teams is mutually enriching and  see themselves in a continuous 
improve it constantly. In 2019, we  by drawing upon the latest  access the areas that expose  similar system that has been 
allows us to leverage on our  process of transformation 
started to work on a behavioural  technologies. We also have  them to a serious, specific risk.  audited internally.
different competencies, which  and growth. A science-driven 
safety program with the goal  extensive, dedicated employee  We promptly take measures to 
are key to our inspiration and  approach, a can-do attitude, 
to raise the bar to a new idea of  training sessions on how to  control risk situations and require 
scientific innovation. teamwork and staunch 
protection.  behave in critical situations. workers, in the event of serious, 
customer-focus make our 
The development of a new digital  immediate and unavoidable 
organization successful. We 
platform will make it possible to  danger, to leave their workplace 
work together to make complex 
share all safety knowledge and  or dangerous area. Moreover, in 
products that fit the world we live 
best practices throughout the  our Safety, Health, Environmental 
in today as well as the future. 
organization. The project has  Protection and Quality Policy, 
been launched this year and  we highlight how workers shall 
will be completely on-line in  “assume respect for Safety, 
2021. Health and the Environment as 
a guiding element in corporate 
We carefully monitor our  decision-making processes, 
operations and every effort is  both in protecting workers 
put to minimize the number of  and respecting the needs of 
accidents. All employees receive  surrounding communities.” 
updated training and we are  Our Code of Ethics also defines 
implementing several Behaviour  the values and rules of conduct 
Based Safety (BBS) Training  for all workers The Code is 
plans. Our target is to reduce our  inspired by our values of fairness 
present Frequency Index (N° LTA  and transparency. 
10/ 1,000,000 worked hours)  Overall, 96% of our employees 
from 6.12, recorded in 2019, to  are covered by an occupational 
3.90, which is the average of  Health and Safety Management 
Italian Companies following  System, in order to minimize 
86 87