People and social responsibility Lamberti
Employees welfare and well-being Sustainability Report 2019
         According to 
Daria, a researcher 
in the Polyurethane 
Lab in Albizzate:
In 2019 our Group had one  and, therefore, is accessible to  Workplace gender 
case of development of work- all our employees. Our Group  “It was a great opportunity to increase my self-
equality
related ill health, which occurred  also offers further Occupational 
consciousness and self-confidence in a short 
in one of our American plants.  Health Services such as work 
The illness was classified as  permits for medical visits,  Within the ESG (Environment,  time”. 
musculoskeletal caused mainly  an infirmary in many plants,  Social and Governance) 
by lifting and moving products in  participation of the doctor  principles of sustainability, 
          Alice, a researcher 
the warehouse. To eliminate such  responsible for H&S in the  although the environmental  in Fiorano Modenese, 
incidents, all employees were  preparation of the risk evaluation,  portion has generally attracted  highlighted the 
importance of the 
retrained on body mechanics  welfare programs and presence  the most attention within the 
initiative:
and lifting principles. In addition,  of First Aid Operators trained  chemical industry, social aspects 
we purchased new equipment  according to regulations. are equally important for us, 
to help move loads, while  particularly concerning gender 
employees are not permitted  Moreover, during medical  equality and diversity. “It has enhanced my awareness to overcome 
to lift more than 50 pounds  checks we offer the possibility 
the obstacles and challenges we face in our 
(approx. 23 kg) by hands. of integrating clinical tests with 
voluntary analysis for the control  daily activities”.
Health Services of other health conditions not 
linked to our employees’ work 
In Italy, the National Health  (e.g. triglycerides, cholesterol). 
          The initiative has also 
System (NHS) is accessible  Finally, close to the winter period,  been extremely useful 
to everyone regardless the  we promote a free voluntary flu  for Romina, our facility 
manager and HR support 
economic and social conditions  vaccination campaign.
in Zanica:
In 2019 we launched a workplace gender equality  “I acquired a different form of self-awareness 
initiative that involves women working across  and now I am able to out of my comfort zone 
         Susanna, part 
of our logistics  more easily”. 
various functions of our organization. Through the 
personnel at the  
Nerviano plant: 
combination of cognitive and physical activities for 
well being, the aim was to increase and enhance 
resilience as well as “can-do” attitude. The initiative  This initiative has made a 
“This experience has triggered in me the 
significant impact on our women 
has been extremely positive and impactful as 
belief that I am able to have an impact on the  employees as a whole. Cohesion 
among them has increased 
emphasized by four of our employees who  environment around me”.
thanks to a collaborative, 
participated in the initiative. positive and mutually enriching 
environment. Lamberti plans to 
expand this program in 2021.
12 The information refer to the Group’s Italian plants.
92 93