People and social responsibility Lamberti
Relations with local communities Sustainability Report 2019
a remarkable ability to withstand  Initiatives and partnerships 
Open Plants (Fabbriche 
heat as well as air and water  with local entities
Aperte) 
pollution.
Since our founding we have 
We have always been aware of 
At our Italian sites, we promoted  believed in creating a shared 
the relevance that our presence 
the planting of 1000 trees in  heritage, supporting local 
has for the communities living 
South America. This initiative  entities and institutions such as 
close to our main plants. In 
was enacted through a gift card  schools, museums and hospitals.
addition to a mutually respectful  We are strong believers in 
that each employee could use 
relationship, we recognize the 
to symbolically plant a tree.  In Albizzate, where our industrial 
importance of bringing local  the necessity of effective 
After the initial planting, the  activity started, we actively 
communities closer to our entity 
donor could trace the tree’s  support the local authorities to 
as well as to our daily activities. 
education and the 
growth and developmentover  ensure the land maintains its 
the years. In this way, we created  value. For instance, we recently 
“Fabbriche Aperte” is an initiative 
importance of culture. 
our own forest thanks to the  financed the construction of 
that currently takes place in 
cooperation and contribution of  a pedestrian and cycle path to 
Italy and Spain and involves 
our personnel. connect two different parts of 
primary schoolchildren. For 
town.
one entire day, they come to 
visit, the production facilities 
We enjoy an excellent 
and laboratories, guided by our 
relationship with local schools 
employees. Our aim is to make 
and museums. We support them 
young generations aware of the 
 Lamberti plans to  by donating teaching materials 
role of chemistry in their lives and 
and in the promotion of their 
the society they live in.
carry out extensive  exhibitions and activities.
reforestation of the area  In Brasil we plan to work 
Tree planting (Trees for the 
with a local NGO to support 
future
professional development of 
adjacent to our Waste 
young people.
In 2019 we contributed to make 
our planet greener through two  Water Treatment plant 
We have established a strong 
global initiatives. Our Indian 
and long lasting relationship with 
affiliate (Lamberti Hydrocolloids  in Albizzate in 2022.
the Italian Red Cross aimed at 
Pvt Ltd) promoted a community 
improving the vital services they 
tree planting initiative in 
provide to society.
September through which 
 
100 Neem trees were planted 
close to our factory. Neem trees 
are highly beneficial to the 
environment because they have 
102 103