Methodological note Lamberti
Topic boundaries and GRI content index Sustainability Report 2019
Topic boundaries and 
Methodological
GRI content index
Note
Boundaries of our material topics
This document is the first  principles for defining report  performance, all Group activities 
Sustainability Report of  content and quality have been  are included and the scope of 
Macro-area Material topic Topic boundary Type of impact
the Lamberti Group and  duly considered to guarantee the  the Report corresponds to the 
aims to highlight Lamberti’s  reliability of the reporting.  2019 consolidated financial  Ethics and integrity Lamberti Group Generated by the Group
achievements regarding  statements, unless otherwise  Economic responsibility 
Lamberti Group; 
economic, social and  The contents and indicators  indicated. Any specifications  & Compliance Economic performance Investors and financial  Generated by the Group
environmental aspects. The  subject to reporting were  and exceptions to the reporting  community
report describes initiatives  selected from the results of the  scope are clearly indicated in 
Lamberti Group, clients  Generated and 
and main results in terms of  materiality analysis described in  their relevant sections. To ensure  Product safety
and end-consumers contributed by the Group
sustainability performance  the section “Our material topics”  the reliability of the data, the use 
Product innovation and 
covering the period from January  of this document and the details  of estimates was limited as much  Lamberti Group Generated by the Group
Products & services intellectual property
1st to December 31st 2019 and  of the disclosures reported  as possible. Whenever present, 
illustrates the commitment of the  are shown in the table “GRI  proper explanations of the  Generated and contributed 
Product sustainability Lamberti Group
Group to creating value for all  Content Index” on page 108.  issues are provided within the  by the Group
its stakeholders. Figures relating  The materiality analysis allowed  document. 
Production optimization Lamberti Group Generated by the Group
to previous years are provided  for the identification of the most 
solely for comparative purposes  relevant sustainability issues for  Generated by the Group 
to enable an assessment of the  Lamberti and for its stakeholders. Contacts Responsible resource  Lamberti Group and its  and directly linked 
Group’s activities over a longer  consumption suppliers through its business 
relationships
period. The reporting scope includes the  Lamberti S.p.a.
10 countries where the Group  Headquarters
Effluents and waste  Lamberti Group, clients  Generated and contribu-
This report has been prepared  has significant manufacturing  Via Marsala 38/D management and end-consumers ted by the Group
Products & services
in accordance with the GRI  operations (Italy, France, Russia,  21013 Gallarate (VA) Italy
Standards -- Core option  Spain, Brazil, Mexico, USA,    Greenhouse gas 
Lamberti Group Generated by the Group 
emissions
(hereinafter “GRI Standards”),  China, India and Indonesia). The  For more information regarding 
defined in 2016 by the GRI -  impact of all other commercial  Lamberti’s Sustainability Report, 
Environmental 
Global Reporting Initiative. These  offices (Hong Kong, South Korea,  please refer to the following  Lamberti Group Generated by the Group 
compliance
Standards were selected as the  United Arab Emirates, Germany,  contact:
reporting framework by the  Turkey, Canada, Poland,  sustainabilityreport@lamberti.com
Employee welfare and  Lamberti Group, employees 
Generated by the Group
Group due to their international  Argentina, South Africa and  health and safety and external workers
recognition and because they  Colombia) on the performance 
Enhancement, skills 
make it possible to prepare a  indicators at the consolidated  Social responsibility development and talent  Lamberti Group Generated by the Group
complete, clear and comparable  level is not deemed significant.  attraction
report. The GRI Standards’  For figures related to economic  Relation with local 
Lamberti Group Generated by the Group
communities
106 107