About Lamberti  Lamberti
Our Value proposition Sustainability Report 2019
Values
Our Value proposition
We established five values 
at the basis of our corporate 
culture. These are, respectively:
Vision Mission
The individual,  winning spirit, integrity 
We want to be a Company  We want to be renowned as  the domain of the technologies 
that expresses, through our  a global leader in the field of  we practice with the correct 
Believing in and recognizing the value of each individual, by establishing relations 
people, values of innovation  certain chemical specialties  level of service aiming to 
based on mutual respect and honorable behavior. Developing the potential, 
distinguished by the ability to  used in high potential industrial  satisfy the interests of the 
professionalism and skills of each person. Boosting the individual’s sense of pride 
integrate chemistry and industrial  sectors, to facilitate their  shareholders, staff, customers 
in belonging to a winning international group. Building an organization capable of 
effectiveness. We aim to do  production processes or improve  and suppliers also by setting 
attracting and retaining talented resources; using rewarding systems that promote 
so by continuously comparing  their finished products. In  up stable organizations in the 
growth, the sharing of skills, continuous improvements, delegating and group work.
our research and the market to  doing so, we want to establish  various geographical areas of 
find a wide range of satisfactory  partnerships with the most  interest, with full respect for 
solutions to ever-changing  important customers in the  the environment and the local 
complex problems, in coherence  market and, where possible  communities.
with the requirements of  or appropriate, also with our  Innovation and creativity 
sustainable development.  suppliers. We strive to combine 
Promoting excellence by adopting product technologies and applications that are 
original, proprietary and capable of generating value. Supporting initiatives and 
projects geared to favoring innovation of the company products and processes 
in synergy with all the partners: customers, suppliers and other third parties that 
collaborate with the Company. 
Working together 
Working “together” and striving to understand one another’s requirements and needs 
fully, in order to make the most of all the opportunities for growth. Developing, with 
inter-departmental work groups, a relationship of contiguity and efficiency, working 
towards the achievement of shared objectives, with an approach oriented to results 
and a global vision. 
10 11