About Lamberti  LLaammbbeerrttii
Our Value proposition SSuusstataininaabbiliiltiyty R Reeppoortr t2 2001919
Our Guidelines 
Sustainable industrial development to promote a 
sustainable 
• Promotion of a Chemistry  • Clear and transparent 
Planning, running and developing industrial activities geared to developing  development,  respectful of the Environment  communication when 
technologies, processes and products while ensuring people’s safety, safeguarding  illustrated in our  through the introduction of  addressing internal operations 
the environment and protecting the community. new products which combine  shall be provided to the local 
Health, Safety, 
the continued use of renewable  community and authorities 
Environmental and  raw materials with improved  with full awareness of our social 
Quality Policy, are: performance and attention  responsibility. 
to the environmental impact 
of the products throughout 
Economic stability and independence
their full product life-cycle and 
manufacturing process. 
Creating value and maintaining the conditions for ensuring the long-term  • Improvement indicators shall 
development of the Company, by guaranteeing economic stability and financial  be developed and periodically 
• Company decision-making 
autonomy. re-analyzed, in order to 
processes must be based on 
evaluate the performance and 
respect for the Safety, Health 
• Responsible Industrial  appropriate application of the 
and Environment of both 
We acknowledge that in order to ensure the growth of the company, we must  Manufacturing, through  Company Policy for Health, 
employees and neighboring 
implement long-term approaches to environmental sustainability and employee  the adoption of innovative  Safety, Environment and Quality.
communities. 
health and safety. To do so, as well as to foster continuous progress, we strive to share  processes, involving lower 
our core values with all our employees.   consumption of resources and 
minimum environmental impact. 
This Group Policy is then 
• Full Compliance to applicable 
enriched and supplemented 
regulations for Safety, Health 
at local level by the Policies 
and Environment is mandatory 
• Investment towards  of the individual Affiliates and 
for all Company functions. 
employee education and  Manufacturing Sites.
training in order to:   
- Develop and promote new 
talent; 
- Ensure the respect of Health, 
• Company functions shall 
Safety and Environment;
consider Quality as an essential 
- Guarantee excellent Quality 
factor for development and as a 
standards; 
necessary tool to create a long-
- Promote correct working 
term competitive advantage 
practices; 
through continuous care to the 
- Encourage tolerance of others 
customer. 
as a shared value; 
- Guarantee equal opportunities 
and avoid any discrimination.
12 13