 
 
 
                                                                                                                       eurosuole spa 
                                                                                                                                       SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 
   
                                                                                                                                     Management report  
                                                                                                                                       Corporate reputation  
           MANAGEMENT REPORT [103-2] [102-25] [102-31] [102-30] [102-48] 
 
 
The balance sheet closes in 2018 with a net profit of Euro 5.085.723, a strong growth compared to the previous 
year, growth mainly due to an improvement in industrial margin and benefits attributable to the considerable 
investments made and falling under the name Industry 4.0, growth partially offset by a reduction in other income. 
In  2018,  we  continued  to  work  in  the  production  of  soles  for  footwear  (Polyurethane,  Rubber, 
Rubber/Polyurethane) and compounds and systems based on resins and synthetic polymers.  
The activity is carried out in the industrial complex owned by the company located in Civitanova Marche (MC), 
industrial zone "A" in Via S. Pertini n.8From a legal point of view, the company does not directly or indirectly control 
other companies that perform complementary and / or functional activities for its core business. 
This year we celebrate 14 years since sustainability has become an important part of our business model. For this 
occasion we have prepared our Sustainability Report in accordance with the recognized internationally Global 
Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards). The economic, environmental and social issues has been revewed by the CEO 
once per year and the issues has been included in the management report. The report presents our performance 
from last year, strategic objectives, stakeholders, details on our practices regarding employees, the community, 
products and the environment. As in previous years, we put a strong emphasis on research and development of 
new sustainable products and technologies. The financial statement is rewewed every year by the auditor that 
according to Italian Law Code has been represented by the Statutary Board. The financial statement has been 
prepared according to Italian Law Code, know well as italian “Generally Accepted Accounting” standard. Significant 
information given in the previous report did not change. 
 
 
            CORPORATE REPUTATION [102-16] [205-1] [205-3] [206-1] [307-1] [406-1] [103-2]  
 
Every decision we make and every action we take directly and indirectly influences society, the environment, the 
   
economy and our reputation linked to these three aspects. The milestones reached by the company and the 
 
professionalism of our employees and collaborators are reflected in the idea that people have of it. These people 
  can be our direct stakeholders, financial institutions, the state, the local community or potential customers we meet 
at trade shows. For this reason, we strive daily to obtain the best performance, respect the rules and, consequently, 
 
maintain an excellent reputation. In this regard, during 2018: 
  We operate in accordance with national and international environmental laws: since 2004 we have been ISO 14001: 
  20041 certified. The TUV Rheinland2 carries out audits within our company and checks if all the requirements are 
met. 
 
 
 
 
 
We have not faced any legal action of unfair competition, anti-trust or monopolistic practices. 
 
 
 
 
 
We have not detected any activitiy considered by the law as risk factor related to corruption. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There have been no cases of discrimination. 
 
 
 
 
We have 25-year contracts with many of our customers. Customer and employee loyalty is proof of our integrity 
and fairness. 
 
 
 
               15 
 