 
                                                                                                                       eurosuole spa 
                                                                                                                                       SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 
   
                                                                                                                                            Political economic-trend  
                                                                                                                               Risk management 
 
 
           POLITICAL-ECONOMIC TREND [102-15] 
 
Despite the dreams or expectations of our governments, the global economic system has suffered a sharp 
  slowdown in the last quarter of 2018. In concrete terms, the hoped-for growth of 1.2% -1.5% at the end of 
2018 stopped at just over 0.2% -0.5%. If you do not run the risk of being considered superficial, you could 
 
also be satisfied or even celebrate because the German giant at the end of last year found itself in the 
 
negative, after so many years ended brilliantly. 
  The slowdown in the world economy, in the last part of the year, has complicated the economic counts in 
  our country; the most serious danger for Italy is the looming VAT increase of up to 25% which, in words, 
government officials are trying to avoid, but in fact it is believed that the increase is inevitable; to sterilize 
 
the safeguard clause would have a very high cost: 23 billion euros for 2020 and 29 billion for 2021. Given 
  that with the "spending review" several economists have already been compared, so far without the 
  slightest success, the tile of the VAT increase will hit the Italian economy, further curbing consumption and 
putting the Italian manufacturing system in serious difficulty. 
 
As much as we try to secure an ever-increasing share of exports, it is good to clarify that no company lives 
 
on export alone so it is absolutely necessary to keep the internal market alive by taking the right path that 
is that of cutting the tax wedge, reinvigorating all employees' wages  and enabling them to have greater     
                                                                                                                       
  spending power.   
 
          RISK MANAGEMENT [102-15] [102-29] [103-2] 
 
Pursuant to the article 2428, paragraph 2, point 6-bis, of the Civil Code, the following information is provided 
 
on the use of financial instruments, useful for the purposes of assessing the financial and equity situation of 
  our company. 
 
 
- We have not entered into transactions of sale or financing with temporary sale of goods and consequent 
 
obligation of retrocession to term. 
   
- We did not issue financial instruments and, during 2018, we did not use derivative financial instruments 
 
neither for speculative purposes nor for hedging purposes. 
 
 
Credit Risk 
   
Credit risk is mitigated by the fact that the exposure is spread over a large number of customers. We also 
 
have special insurance policies in place that cover a large part of their receivables from the risk of insolvency. 
  As regards financial assets, it must be assumed that they have an excellent credit quality given that they are 
bank deposits. 
 
Liquidity Risk 
 
 
We have deposits with credit institutions that are more than adequate to meet our liquidity needs. 
 
Market Risk 
 
 
  As already mentioned, we mainly produce products for the footwear sector, a market that is now mature and 
notoriously in crisis since years. For this reason we have intensified research and development activities aimed 
 
at creating innovative products with high technological content, able to satisfy the growing needs and 
  demands of customers. Furthermore, this way we have the possibility of entering new markets with a 
  qualified business card. 
This, together with high quality and service standards, constitutes an important requirement that we are 
 
certain can be adequately appreciated by customers from whom we expect to be preferred to our other 
  competitors. 
 
 
               16 
 