 
                                                                                                                       eurosuole spa 
                                                                                                                                       SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 
   
                                                                                                                                  Materiality analysis 
 
            MATERIALITY ANALYSIS [102-46] [102-47] [102-49] [103-1] [103-2]       
2018 is the fourth year in which our Integrated Report is drawn up in accordance with the GRI Standards of 
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), recognized internationally. The material topics did not change much 
compared to last year. Also this year we have put a strong emphasis on research and development of new 
sustainable products and technologies; we have also strengthened the focus on training and health of our 
employees. 
In this paragraph, we explain the process of defining the report content and materiality. 
First, we identified the relevant topics in terms of economic, environmental and social impacts we cause and 
contribute to.  
As not all material topics are of equal importance, they are distributed inside the matrix so that their position 
reflects their priority. 
 
In the assessment of material topics, we took into consideration internal and external factors: 
 
- expectation of stakeholders; 
 
- expectations of international entities (i.e. 14001 certification); 
 
- CEO’s goals; 
 
- strategic plans of the highest governance’s body 
 
- local community’s needs; 
 
- respect to the environment; 
 
- economic growth. 
 
We divided our material topics in four macro-areas: social, safety, environment and economic/governance. 
The first area refers to the human aspect, both internal (CEO, shareholders and employees) and external (local 
community).  
The second area enlighten the importance we give to safety: safety both of our employees and our products.  
The area “environment”, as the previous year, is composed by the following material topics: emission, waste, 
water and energy.  
The last group regards the governance values and the economic aspects that affect the business success the 
most. 
Against the previous year, there are not significant changes in the list of material topics nor in topic 
Boundaries. During 2018, among the material topics, we gave emphasis to safety at workplace, we focused 
on employees’ welfare and we considered the infrastructure investment as material because of the expansion 
of our building. Regarding topic Boundaries, we mainly focused on the long-term impacts of our business 
activities and on the preservation of our stakeholders’ interests. 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
               18 
 