 
                                                                                                                       eurosuole spa 
                                                                                                                                       SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 
   
                                                                                                                                                                         Suppliers 
          SUPPLIERS [102-9] [204-1] [308-1] [103-2] [414-1] [414-2] 
 
 
Our strategy regarding our suppliers is to find the best offers in economic terms, while guaranteeing quality, 
  safety and compliance with sustainability requirements. In 2004 we obtained ISO 14001 certification. 
This was a clear sign of an evolved corporate culture focused on the construction of a supply chain 
 
characterized by the principles: total quality, respect for the environment and business ethics. The choice of 
 
suppliers and raw materials assumes a strategic weight for us; both in order to maintain our position on the 
  international scene and to ensure compliance with the rules on worker safety and environmental protection. 
 
 
We are committed to ensuring a fair procurement process. We have a formal procedure for managing 
 
suppliers and we select them with set standards on a competitive basis. We have defined clear and precise 
  rules with suppliers and contractors who come to operate directly on our sites. We have exposed to them 
the  rules  on  waste  management,  indicating  the  dangerous  points,  the  current  safety  standards,  the 
 
prevention and emergency measures, to protect the contractor's employees as well. At the end of each year, 
 
on the occasion of the management review, an assessment is made of the suppliers used during the year. On 
  the basis of this it is decided whether to continue the relationship or stop it and identify a new supplier of the 
  product / service in question. We always try to improve our supplier management and the sustainability of 
our procurement practices.  
 
 
  Regarding the geographic distribution of suppliers, our strategy is "Think global, act local". As in previous years, 
  the majority of our suppliers are in Italy. In 2018, 88.18% of suppliers were located in Italy, while 11.82% in 
foreign countries. Many of our suppliers are intermediate distributors, which interpose themselves between 
 
us and the large multinationals, linked to them through stringent agreements or price cartels. The offer price 
  of the goods, therefore, appears to be the same between different distributors. Thanks to the clarity and 
  seriousness of these policies, to date the company has no disputes open with suppliers. 
 
 
As you can see in the statistics presented below, we prefer that the suppliers are located as close as possible 
 
to our design and production centers for an easier and faster exchange of information with the technical office, 
  facilitating coordination. Furthermore, the guideline is to acquire goods and services from local businesses, 
trusting that it brings benefits both in terms of environmental and social impact. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
               20 
 