 
 
 
                                                                                                                       eurosuole spa 
                                                                                                                                       SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 
   
                                                                                                                                       Message from the CEO 
 
                                                                                                     
 
              Message from the CEO [102-14] [103-2] [102-20] [102-26]  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
2018 was another year of satisfaction for Eurosuole: we confirmed the good results achieved in 
previous years, thanks to the high quality of our products supplied to our customers, always with 
respect for all stakeholders. We have consolidated an industrial strategy based on responsible and 
sustainable development and innovation. 
 
 
 
 
We have confirmed sustainability as a guide in our strategic choices, particularly in terms of the two 
fundamental themes of sustainability: people and environment. As part of a process of value creation 
in  balance  between  business  objectives  and  the  needs  of  society,  the  activities  of  2018  have 
consolidated both typical aspects of the sustainable action of Eurosuole such as the commitment to 
the quality of work relations and investments in the energy efficiency program, and opened new 
fronts of interest such as that for new projects in the environmental field, whose impact in terms of 
lower consumption of resources will be increasingly visible in the years to come. 
 
 
 
 
The Company considers its workers an important asset to be preserved and defended, for this reason 
it adopts all the systems necessary to make the working environment comfortable and safe. The 
Company invests in updating its personnel who are informed about the application of new production 
techniques  to  ensure  the  development  of  resources  and  avoid  accidents  with  irreparable 
consequences. 
The Company is particularly sensitive to problems related to the protection and conservation of the 
environment. Our business model is designed to provide customers with the best quality products, 
made in Italy in a responsible manner. Since July 2004, the Company has obtained and continues to 
maintain environmental certification in accordance with ISO 14001. 
The 2018 Sustainability Report is in its fourteenth edition and once again testifies to our commitment 
to accountability towards all stakeholders. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
               3 
 