 
                                                                                                                       eurosuole spa 
                                                                                                                                       SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 
   
                                                                                                                      Our products
 
             OUR PRODUCTS [102-9] [416-1] [103-2]  
 
  Eurosuole boasts of being able to offer high quantities while maintaining high quality, while successfully 
promoting the true "Made in Italy" in the world. The firm's firm will is to offer its customers a versatile product 
  capable of satisfying even very different standards in terms of customer expectation. 
This translates into a great commitment to continually and rapidly renew our sample collection. 
 
 
  Eurosuole is also very attentive to issues of eco-sustainability and environmental impact, aware of the 
  possible consequences for present and future generations; this is why our products respect not only the 
environment, but also the EEC safety standards and are TUV ISO 140001 certified. 
 
 
  The range of our products is wide and differentiated: 
                                                                                                                        
Polyurethane soles 
 
 
A new generation non-toxic polyurethane is used which, with particular chemical-physical procedures, can 
 
be more or less expanded. This attitude makes it possible to obtain soles with characteristics of lightness, 
 
flexibility and insulation. The product obtained is particularly suitable for the manufacture of sandals, 
 
slippers and summer shoes. 
 
 
  Rubber soles 
   
A non-toxic elastomer of natural or synthetic origin is used for their production. This material allows the 
 
creation of high quality products, with high performance in terms of resistance to abrasion, grip and 
  durability. 
  These soles are particularly suitable for the manufacture of leisure, sports and anti-injury footwear. 
 
 
Rubber/polyurethane soles 
 
  They go to combine polyurethane and rubber in a single product. These soles are in fact made by a rubber 
tread and an upper part in polyurethane. The destination of soles of this type is that of highly technical 
 
footwear, where there is need for the lightness of a foamed material such as polyurethane but at the same 
  time also of the resistance of a high quality material and with strong technical characteristics such as rubber. 
 
Dualdensity polyurethane soles 
 
 
They can be two-colored. They combine the technical benefits of a product with greater grip with the 
 
possibility of satisfying higher stylistic needs. 
 
Production of PU compounds  
 
 
It is a mix of polyurethane resins with isocyanates. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
               24 
 