 
                                                                                                                       eurosuole spa 
                                                                                                                                       SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 
   
                                                                                                                  Employees 
            EMPLOYEES [102-8] [102-41] [401-1] [405-1] [103-2]   
 
We continue to invest in our staff, with the aim of creating a welcoming and pleasant working environment. We 
 
believe that this approach not only motivates employees to work professionally, but also contributes to achieving 
the desired economic and social outcome. 
 
We are aware that investment in skills development and specific training is the key to success in a competitive 
  environment such as our industry. 
We organise the training and ensure that our employees attend the courses regularly. In addition, we distribute 
 
information material to them so that they can increase and deepen their general knowledge. Finally, we believe 
very much in dialogue, and we try to solve in person or over the phone the issues that arise every day, as it is the 
   
most  effective  way.  The  added  value  we  create  through  our  business  is  used  primarily  for  employee 
  compensation, training and well-being. 
An essential element in any relationship is trust. Our company is in fact the result of the recognition of 
 
management skills and of the respect and recognition of each individual employee. People in management 
  positions help to create a fair and open working environment in which employees work together and support 
each other. 
  The current employment situation in Italy and, more generally, in Europe does not show a very optimistic view. 
However, our company takes the working conditions of its employees seriously and has not cut back on social 
 
services at all. In fact, we voluntarily offer some free services to improve the work/life balance of our staff. 
  Our incentive system has proved effective so far. It has encouraged employees to limit absenteeism and to focus 
their efforts on achieving the company's mission. 
 
The company does not have significant changes in employees based on their seasonality. 
The company does not have non-employee workers. 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
               57 
 