               
                                                                           
                                                                                                                      eurosuole spa 
                                                                                                                                      SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 
   
                                                                                                                Employees 
 
             Remuneration [102-35] [102-36] [202-1] [405-2]    
All our employees, regardless of their contractual status, enjoy the same benefits. 
In Italy there is no minimum wage, or rather, the minimum wage is that provided for by the national collective 
labour agreement for the specific category. The CCNL is a type of employment contract stipulated at national 
level between the respective social partners, i.e. the organisations representing employees and the associations 
representing employers. It lays down the basic parameters and rules to be followed by individual employment 
contracts. Our company adheres to the National Rubber and Plastics Contract, which presents the salary scales 
with the various levels, from the basic level to the maximum level. 
         
 
              Performance award 
 
 
Since 1994, in addition to the national collective agreement, we have established a second-level agreement. This 
 
agreement, among other elements, also provides for a premium linked to collective and individual productivity 
gains. The premium is divided into two components. The first is linked to the "trend in turnover in the first half     
of the year" indicator to be distributed according to attendance, while the second component refers to quality 
 
and is calculated on the basis of returns on goods in relation to months of work, for a total of 880 euro. In 2018, 
  a total premium of €149,725 was paid. 
 
  The following hours are included in the calculation of the hours worked: 
 
 
  Ordinary hours actually worked; 
    Hours of rest for blood donation; 
  Hours of rest for bone marrow donation; 
 
  Hours of accident at work not caused by negligence on the part of the worker; 
    Hours of compulsory maternity; 
  Hours allowed per hour pursuant to Law 104/92; 
    
 
  Hours of trade union leave and trade union assemblies. 
 
 
               Equal pay for men and women
 
 
At Eurosuole we support equality between the sexes and equal opportunities: we guarantee the same 
remuneration for the same level of management. 
 
 
 
 
 
               60 
 