 
 
    
                                                                                                                       eurosuole spa 
                                                                                                                                       SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 
   
                                                                                                          Energy 
 
  The programme for monitoring energy consumption (electricity, methane) and water consumption (wells, 
aqueduct) is carried out by collecting data through monthly readings and billing accounting documents.  
 
As far as trigeneration is concerned, the working profile identified in previous years has been modified, as 
  new machinery has been introduced which has required greater electrical and thermal consumption and 
a reshaping of the use of cogenerators. Therefore, the two time bands have been abolished and the 
cogenerators are active 24 hours a day, thus providing about 1200 kW of power per hour on an average     
demand of 1400 kWh. 
 
It should be remembered that the operating logic of the cogenerators is 'electric tracking'; this means that 
  the machines are modulated in the power produced so that they satisfy, without ever exceeding, the 
electrical demand of the plant. 
 
The management of the plants foresees that most of the heating of the production rooms during the 
winter season takes place through the use of the thermal energy LT (low temperature) made available by 
 
the trigeneration plant. In order to prevent trigeneration stoppages leading to a lack of heating in the 
  production rooms, a back-up line powered by diathermic oil and with a suitable heat exchanger has been 
created, which starts operating when there is a need for heating and the trigeneration line is no longer in 
 
use. All the electrical and thermal vectors made available by the trigeneration are used and when they are 
  not sufficient to satisfy the request coming from the plants, the thermal power plants and the withdrawal 
of electricity from the operator automatically start working, thanks to the integration of the trigeneration 
  to the existing plants. 
The punctual management of thermal power stations, which began in the previous year, was maintained 
 
over the weekends, trying to limit consumption to a minimum, even shutting down the systems if the 
  outside temperatures allowed it. 
The table of consumption and energy indicators shows that in 2018 there was a decrease in total 
 
TOE both in absolute value and with respect to the production of soles. In the last three years, 
  therefore, there has been a positive trend of improvement in the efficiency of energy resource 
consumption, which is returning to values similar to 2015. 
 
Our trigenerator 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
               64 
 