 
 
                                                                                                                       eurosuole spa 
                                                                                                                                       SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 
   
                                                                                                                    Governance 
 
 
              GOVERNANCE [102-18] [102-20] [102-22] [102-23] [102-24] [102-26] [102-29] [102-32] [202-2] 
 
The top management is made up of the CEO, who make the most important economic, environmental and social decisions. The 
shareholders meeting votes every three years the CEO of the company (in line with the Italian law code). After 42 years, the CEO 
remains of fundamental importance for every decision, both for his entrepreneurial spirit and for his ability to think in the long term. 
The top management is involved in the decision-making process and with his charisma he is able to convey the values of the 
company on a daily basis, both in the workplace and outside. As can be seen from the simplified organisation chart below, at the 
second level of the government structure, and at the top of the functional areas, there are three managers, competent and 
motivated to work in line with our mission.  One is the industrialization manager: he is an engineer and controls and organises the 
entire production at the machinery level. The second is the product manager and human resources manager, as well as RSPP. The 
third is the administration, finance and control manager. All the manager report to the general manager and have an executive role, 
the human resources manager has an executive role with regard to social issues, the industrialization manager has an executive role 
with regard to technical issues and the administration, finance and control manager has an executive role with economic issues. 
At the third level, there are the following functional areas:  
 
  Purchasing and sustainability, led by Mrs. Gibellieri with executive role with regard to the environment. 
  Production, divided into various departments; each department has its own head of department.  
  Information technology, led by Cognigni.  
  Sales split by Italian and Extra-UE team  
  Research and development;  
  Maintenance, formed by mechanics. 
 
The business model is typical of the corporation, ie composed of a single director, shareholders' meeting and board of auditors 
which has the function of control. 
 
The CEO 
Germano Ercoli 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
  Administration, finance and  Product manager and human  Industrialization manager 
control manager  resources   
 
Piergiorgio Polenti    Giorgio Ruffini  Marco Cognigni 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
               8 
 