 
                                                                                                                       eurosuole spa 
                                                                                                                                       SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 
   
                                                                                                                                               Family, health and society 
                 FAMILY [103-2] [401-3]  
 
We are aware of the importance of the relationship between family life and work, and we are therefore trying to offer help 
here too. In 2018, five employees applied for and received parental leave, one of whom was a woman and the rest a man. 
 
With the exception of one leave which continues to be active in 2019, the others who have taken it have returned to work 
after the end of the period granted and are still in force. As a result, after parental leave, the rate of return to work is 80%. 
 
In addition to respectful working conditions, for several years now we have been taking care of their school-age children 
during the summer season by offering our employees, in collaboration with Le Tate, an association specialising in leisure     
activities for children, free summer camps. These summer camps offer a healthy program for children during the holidays 
  through educational and recreational activities. The service aims to help our employees who have children and who may 
have difficulty combining work and their management during the summer season. 
   
                  HEALTH [403-6] [103-2]    
 
Employee health is a key element. In 2017 we renewed the agreement signed with Istituto Villa dei Pini-Santo 
  Stefano giving the opportunity to all employees, or alternatively to a family member, to perform instrumental 
diagnostic examinations such as: lung CT, breast ultrasound and MRI of the prostate, and to have access to 
 
discounts on other examinations. 
In 2018, we reconfirmed our participation in the Workplace Health Promotion (WHP) programme. The program,     
introduced by the World Health Organization, aims to reduce the risk factors most involved in the genesis of chronic 
  non-communicable diseases by promoting healthy lifestyles in the workplace. The program is the result of a collaboration 
between the Marche Region, Asur Marche, the Regional Health Agency (ARS) and companies, and is implemented at 
 
regional level.  
The Workplace Health Promotion Programme of the Marche Region provides for the development of activities (good 
 
practices) in 5 thematic areas: nutrition, physical activity, tobacco smoking, alcohol and cancer screening programmes; 
the aim is to: 
 
  Increase the consumption of fruit and vegetables 
    Reduce excessive salt consumption 
  Reduce the number of smokers 
  Extending the protection of passive smoking     
  Reduce the consumption of alcohol at risk 
 
  Increase people's physical activity 
  Promote adherence to oncology screenings. 
   
For the year 2018, Eurosuole has chosen the fight against tobacco smoking and the promotion of cancer screenings by 
implementing a programme of internal initiatives to inform, raise awareness and involve its employees.  We firmly 
 
believe that we can contribute to the development of a healthy society in the long term, starting from within the 
company. 
   
                   COMPANY [102-12] [102-13] [103-2] [413-1] 
 
 
 
We support the local community: our contribution every year is directed to sport, culture and non-profit associations. 
  We also believe in the potential of young people, who believe that building a healthy and happy society is possible.  
Step by step, through small initiatives, we can create a culture of safety and health.  Social and relationship capital is one of 
 
the most important in our business model.  That is why we not only make investments related to our industry, but we 
  promote the overall development of the community, through various projects.  
Consistent with our objectives of prosperity and growth, we recognise our responsibility to our stakeholders and the society 
 
in which they live.  Our strategy is therefore developed according to their needs, including social, cultural and educational 
  initiatives to improve the living conditions of the local population and to protect vulnerable groups.  We contribute every 
year to sport, culture, social welfare organisations and non-profit social welfare organisations (O.N.L.U.S.).  The families of 
 
our employees are also part of society: we want their children and future generations to grow up in a prosperous and 
  sustainable reality.  That is why supporting society is one of our values and we are committed to influencing it positively. 
 
 
               71 
 