Material Material themes
Macrothemes Themes Motivations and boundaries  from GRI Standard Disclosure  Management tools  Responsibilities
All the Macro  All the Material   The material themes have been  POLICIES
themes  Themes identiﬁed applying the principles for  The group is administered in the logic of recognition of the social role that the company has within the community, through the 
the deﬁnition of the Report contents  implementation of innovative solutions to improve the quality of life and the environment.
and through the processes of  PSC is developing a common policy for the whole Group regarding quality, environment and safety. In reference to these themes, the 
stakeholder engagement and  policies adopted by the Prima Components business unit are currently being used as a reference in compliance with the international 
analysis of materiality described in  standards ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001. 
detail in the second chapter of the  In the quality policy it is declared that:
Report of Sustainability, "Materiality  • The future of Prima Sole Components depends on the ability to establish and maintain stable and satisfactory relationships with 
and methodology".  customers.
For every PSC material theme the  • The satisfaction of customers’ needs and the acquisition of new market areas are achieved through a continuous improvement of 
perimeter, within which the potential  quality products, services and cost-effectiveness relationship. The commitment to 
impact can have an effect, has been  Prima Sole Components, the group's holding company, deﬁnes the vision, the mission and the medium and long-term strategies in  take a more 
identiﬁed:  the new Group Industrial Plan 2018 - 2022. The operational plans of the business units and the sites connected to them are then  sustainable approach 
developed on these lines. In the industrial plan, the strategic guidelines are: competitiveness, technological innovation and  is shared both by the 
• Within company boundaries: in this  localization. At the Business Unit level and, with a trickle-down effect, for each production site, the activities in line with the strategic  President and the CEO 
case the impact mainly affects the  guidelines of the PSC are deﬁned according to the following logical process: analysis of the business plan, S.W.O.T. analysis to  and involves all the 
internal stakeholders  determine strengths and weaknesses, as well as opportunities and risks, risk assessment and deﬁnition of the operational plan. business units, the   
•Outside the company boundaries:  •The Business Plan covers the company network of all the PSC Group plants. individual plants and 
in this case, the external stakeholders  • The last revision date of the Business Plan was April 2018. all the functions and 
are mainly affected by the impact  PSC is also working on the drafting of organization, management and control model pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/2001.  the company 
• Inside and outside the company  Currently the company responsibilities for the realization of the document have been assigned. Such model provides for an update of  employees. The 
boundaries: the impact affects all  the code of ethics of the Group, of which a version is already active in the company. The latter clearly and transparently deﬁnes the set  responsibility in the 
stakeholders. of values to which the Group is inspired in the relationship with all stakeholders. implementation of the 
In the management of material  policies, in the 
themes, PSC considers both the  COMMITMENTS  realization of the 
possible impact that can be directly  With the publication of the ﬁrst sustainability report, PSC aims to demonstrate its willingness and commitment to undertake a new  commitments and in 
caused and the one that can indirectly  path towards sustainability in the economic, social and environmental spheres. This will and commitment derive from the company  achievement of the 
derive from his work. management, as described in the letter of the CEO at the opening of the Report and are transmitted in all of the plants and at all  objectives is entrusted 
company levels.  to the administrators of 
The commitment to the respect of legitimate stakeholders’ interests and the community of all the PSC plants is set forth in the code of  each business unit and 
ethics of the Group.  managers of the 
individual production 
OBJECTIVES AND GOALS 
units. The achievement 
The objectives and goals that PSC sets towards sustainability can be found in this Report and concern all the plants PSC. The objectives 
of the speciﬁc 
show an improvement with respect to national legislation and will be monitored annually. Other more speciﬁc goals are identiﬁed in 
objectives, identiﬁed in 
the improvement plans of each company site, prepared in compliance with the quality, environment and security standards.  
the improvement 
RESOURCES  plans, is delegated to 
Dislocating human and ﬁnancial resources is under the responsibility of the business unit administrator who, along with the director of  responsible 
the plant, draws up an investment plan approved by the holding company.  implementation 
COMPLAINTS MECHANISMS management systems.
In the PSC sites, certiﬁed ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 / ISO 45001 complaint collection systems are part of the 
management systems. Currently PSC has not activated an organized system that allows to ask for information and make any 
complaints on the company website. Stakeholders can make requests and complaints at the contact point speciﬁed in this report. 
SPECIFIC ACTIONS 
PSC publishes its ﬁrst sustainability report in compliance with the main international reporting standard of sustainability, the 
GRI-Standards. Prima Components also undertakes to keep the policies on quality, environment and safety up to date and 
MANAGEMENT EVALUATION   
In order to monitor the actual adequacy of the management of the material issues, the results of the audits at ﬁrst and third part 
performed on management systems will be used. Furthermore, GRI Standards disclosures, reported in this Report and subsequent, 
will be used as evaluations on management.
PAGE 117