Material themes 
Macrothemes  Material  Themes Motivations and boundaries  from GRI Standard Disclosure  Management tools  Responsibilities
Acting considering the risks and opportunities in  GRI 201: Economic  201-1 Economic value generated 
the economic, social and environmental sphere  Performance 2016 and distributed
Risk management for the operation and image of PSC. Any related 
GRI 102: General  102-15 Main impacts, risks and 
impacts could have effects both within and  Disclosure 2016 opportunities.
outside the Group.
POLICIES
In the quality policy, whose principles are applicable to all the Group's plants, it is declared that the 
Research and technological innovation as  201-4 Financial assistance received  following topics are central:
strategic elements to increase the competitive- GRI 201: Economic  from the government • The integration of the economic objectives with the requests of the interested parties and the 
Research, 
ness of its products, in line with sustainable  Performance 2016 applicable requirements
development and 
technological  development. Any related impacts could have  Nacoti.v oitfi reessources engaged in R & D  ••  PThroec eefsﬁsc iimenpcryo ovef mtheen ptl abny tism apnlde meqeunitpinmge pnrto ujesectds  faoirm perdo daut cinticorne.asing performance
innovation effects both within and outside the Group.
The guiding principles are honesty, fairness, transparency and impartiality. They are applied in any 
relationship with suppliers, with the community and in any relationship with customers, to ensure the 
To relate with our business partners, recognizing 
development of a responsible supply chain along with high levels of customer satisfaction and an 
value for cooperation, synergies and socially 
206-1 Legal actions for  open dialogue with communities.  These principles have always animated PSC and are being 
responsible behaviour, in order to achieve higher 
GRI 206: Anti-competitive  non-competitive behaviour,  formalized with the drafting of a new code of ethics, in compliance with the Legislative Decree 
Relations with  levels of knowledge and higher quality. Any  behaviour 2016 anti-trust and monopolistic practices  231/2001.
business partners related impacts may have effect both inside and  and their result
outside the Group. 
COMMITMENTS
416-1 Percentage of the categories of  It is PSC’s commitment to scrupulously respect all those rules and laws applicable in the areas of  The responsibilities for 
The care of customer services and the  products and services for which health  quality, safety, respect for environment, aiming at continuous improvement. the management of 
Satisfaction of the  development of products with high quality  and safety impacts are assessed  It is PSC’s commitment to carry out its activities in an ethical manner, respecting in every relation with  the material themes 
GENERATED VALUE cquusatloitmy eorf  athned   sretalantdioanrdshs,i pa sa bnads mic uetluemal esnattiss tfoac etisotanb. lAisnhy  are llaastteindg   GHReaI l4th1 6a:n Cdu Ssatofemtye 2r 016 4n1on6--c2o Nmupmliabnecre o wf ciathse rse gouf lations and  stakeholders its guiding principles, which will be formalized in the code of ethics. r"egfeenrreerda tteod t hvael ue" 
product impacts could have effects both within and  codes concerning health impacts and  macro-theme are 
  outside the Group. safety of products and services  OThBeJ oEbCjTeIcVtiEvSe sA aNnDd  GgoOaAlsL Staken for the material themes of this macro-theme are developed following as  assigned according to 
  described in the section "Processes common to all macro-themes". what is described in 
Ensure compliance with mandatory or voluntary  307-1 Non-compliance with  the section “Processes 
standards through the empowerment of its  environmental laws and regulations RESOURCES to common to all 
Compliance employees and through appropriate organization  GCoRmI 3p0li7a:n Ecnev 2ir0o1n6mental  419-1 Non-compliance on laws and  The personnel and ﬁnancial resources for the management of this macro-theme are given in detail to  macro-themes".
and management models. Any related impacts  regulations in the socio-economic  all the Group's management, such management is coordinated and controlled by the president and 
GRI 419: Socioeconomic  ﬁeld CEO of PSC.
could have an effect both within and outside the 
Compliance 2016
Group
COMPLAINTS MECHANISMS
The mechanisms though which it is possible to place any complaints related to this macro-theme are 
308-1 New suppliers evaluated on 
The involvement of the supply chain by sharing  GRI 308: Supplier  the basis of environmental criteria developed as described in the section "Processes common to all macro-themes".
the principles, policies and tools for sustainability  Environmental 
Responsible 
management for  and social responsibility. Any related impacts may  Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers evaluated on  SPECIFIC ACTIONS
the basis of social criteria The managing director of PSC and then the business unit administrators and subsequently the board 
the supply chain have effect both inside and outside the Group. GRI 414: Supplier Social  of directors regularly evaluate the economic performances of the single business unit and of  PSC and 
Assessment 2016
analyse any risks and opportunities.
Attention and comparison with the expectations  413-1 Areas of operation with  EVALUATION ON THE MANAGEMENT
of the local communities, through an open,  implementation of local community  Evaluation mechanisms on the management of material themes related to the "Generation of value" 
GRI 413: Local  involvement programs, impact  macro-theme are developed following what is described in the section" Processes common to all 
Local communities transparent and constructive dialogue. Any  Communities 2016 assessment and development. macro themes ".
related impacts could have effects outside the 
Group.
PAGE 118