MTeatmerii aml tahteemrieasli 
MMacarcortohteemmeis TMeamteir iMal a Tteherimaleis MotiMvaottiiovnasz iaonndi e b coounnﬁdnairies  dfrao mG RGIR-SI Statannddaarrdd IDnifsocrlmosautirvea  StruMmaneangtie pmere nlat  gtoeosltsio ne RReessppoonnssiabbiliitliiteàs
POLICIES
The principles set in the policies for quality, environment and safety, are applicable to all plants of the 
Generates well-being for employees through an  Group, consistent with the strategic guidelines of PSC.
Well-being for  organization and an environment which  401-1 Total number of hires and  In the policy for quality, among the central themes it is stated «the active involvement of all the staff in the 
employees encourages commitment towards quality and the  Turnover rate process of continuous improvement ".
achievement of personal and professional  GRI 401: Employement  In the environmental policy, on the other hand, there is the commitment "to promote the responsibility and 
sensitivity of the employees, engaged at all levels in company activities, through appropriate information 
satisfaction. Any related impacts could have effect  2016 401-2 Beneﬁts provided for full time 
within the Group. workers who are not provided to part  programs and training, in order to obtain their cooperation”.
time workers Finally, in the safety policy it is stated that "in carrying out its activities, the Group considers human health,  The responsibilities for 
environmental protection and occupational safety a fundamental duty, a continuous duty and a constant 
the management of 
component of its own mission”.
the material themes 
referred to the 
COMMITMENTS
"Workers" 
In the safety policy, the commitment of the entire organization is to:
macro-theme are 
• Respect, in the contents and principles, the laws on industrial safety and hygiene applicable to the 
assigned following the 
activities, products and services of the plant.
The guarantee of safety throughout the process  • Promote any initiative to reduce to zero, in all activities, the possibility of accidents that may compromise  procedure described in 
and the protection of workers' health during all  403-1 Workers represented in the  the safety of employees and surrounding communities. the section "Processes 
phases of procurement and production.  Any  formal company-workers health and  • Pursue continuous improvement in the management of site safety, even through the identiﬁcation of the  common to all 
Health and Safety  related impacts could have effect within the  GRI 403: Occupational  safety committees risks associated with the activities carried out and the deﬁnition of new targets for their reduction. macro-themes".
at work Group. health and safety 2018 • Promote the involvement of all employees, including their representatives, and establish a transparent  The responsibility in 
403-2 Type of accidents, accident  and collaborative relationship with public, private and local communities. terms of health and 
rates, occupational diseases, days of  The commitment of PSC in the development of human resources, to guarantee its rights and to promote its  safety is entrusted to 
work lost, absenteeism, and number 
development and personal growth, is formalized in the code of ethics of the Group. the individual 
of fatal accidents
administrators of the 
OBJECTIVES AND GOALS business units that act 
The objectives and goals identiﬁed for the material themes of this macro-theme are developed according to  as employers towards 
WORKERS what is described in the section "Processes common to all macro-themes". employees.
In each production unit 
Considering one's own employees as a  RESOURCES and in each plant, the 
fundamental element of the company's value, to  The personnel and economic resources for the workers management are assigned to the individual  directors have a wide 
Personnel Training  be developed through adequate training in the  GRI 404: Training and  404-1 Average training hours per  business units through the deﬁnition and approval of the annual budget. delegation regarding 
and Devolopment  development of individual skills. Any related  Education 2016 employee safety and 
impacts could have effect within the Group.  COMPLAINTS MECHANISMS environment. Each 
404-3 Percentage of workers  The mechanisms with which it is possible to place any complaints related to this macro-theme are  company of the Group 
receiving regular performance  developed following what is described in the section "Processes common to all macro-themes". has an H&S Manager 
evaluation and review of the career 
development that collaborates on 
SPECIFIC ACTIONS the issues related to 
PSC has started a management system that, thanks to an internal and external audit process and to the 
safety and workers 
periodical reviews, provides for the control, monitoring and possibly the mitigation of negative impacts 
elect one or more 
concerning workers’ health and safety.
Workers’ Safety 
The Human Resources Department in cooperation with the individual business units and the directors of the 
Representatives (or 
production units or plants, manages professional and personal training programs for employees, newly 
hired and administered at the production sites. These programs are developed based on the business  Employee 
Eoqpupaolr tunities and  Tdhivee ersnihtya onfc eemmepnloty oefe pse, rssuopnpalli earnsd a ncudl tcuursatlo mers,  GRI 405: Diversity and  nrAetes leoeduassr.ct  Teohsn edc pee praiao yrretimtaiere,s nt fhto ear  cmtchoaern dinaingdgeivm itdoeu tnhatle  sw nyosetreekdmesrs  oa arf erteh i deree tvnaisteikwﬁ.eedd  b(IyS Oth e9 0fu0n1c eti oOnH mSAaSn a1g8e0r0s 1a/nISdO b4y5 th0e0 1h)u, man  RHEneevpairlrteohsn,e mSnateafnetittvy ie na  fnodr  the 
diversities avoiding unjustiﬁed discrimination and favouring  Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity in governing bodies  involving the administrators of the business units, the site managers and the managers of the different  companies with rubber 
inclusion.  Any related impacts could have effect  and among workers
business functions. Following the review, the results of the audits, of non-compliances, of the corrective  and plastic contract).
within the Group.
measures implemented, objectives and indicators, improvement initiatives can be implemented.
EVALUATION ON THE MANAGEMENT
The evaluation mechanisms on the management of the material themes related to the "Workers" 
macro-theme are developed as described in the section "Processes common to all macro-themes".
PAGE 119