Material themes 
MMacarcortohteemmeis TMeamteir iMal a Tteherimaleis MotiMvaottiiovnasz iaonndi e b coounnﬁdnairies  from GRI Standard IDnifsocrlmosautirvea  StruMmaneangtie pmere nlat  gtoeosltsio ne RReessppoonnssiabbiliitliiteàs
POLICIES
The responsible use of energy resources  Among the central themes for Prima Components, declared in the environmental policy, there are:
achieved, when possible, with energy saving  302-1 Energy consumption within  • Evaluation of the environmental impacts of new processes, new products and changes to existing plants.
Energy  technologies and practices and the choice of  the organization • Careful monitoring of environmental performances in order to identify and monitor the environmental 
consumption renewable resources. Any related impacts could  GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-4 Reduction of energy  indicators
have effects both within and outside the Group. consumption • The intervention on the process and the activities to improve waste management, with an ever-increasing 
propensity towards recycling, in order to avoid more effectively the contamination of soil and water, to 
constantly monitor the quantities of materials used (chemicals, polymers) to control emissions into the 
atmosphere.
Conducting its activities by seizing the  • To privilege those suppliers who demonstrate that they have carried out initiatives in favour of the 
opportunities to prevent and mitigate emissions  environment.
Emissions in  into the atmosphere, protecting air quality and  • The commitment to intervene on signiﬁcant environmental aspects, direct and indirect, with the best 
305-1 Direct greenhouse gas  technologies economically sustainable.
atmosphere  combating climate change. Any related impacts  emissions
could have effects both within and outside the  GRI 305: Emissions 2016 COMMITMENTS
Group. 305-7 NOX, Sox and other signiﬁcant  In the environmental policy, reference to all plants of the Group, the entire organization is reafﬁrmed to: Responsibilities for the 
emissions • Respect, in the contents and principles, the environmental laws, also in compliance with the international  themes management 
standards and pursuing voluntary improvement initiatives. related to the area of 
• Evaluate in advance, avoid or reduce potential environmental impacts (and their economic dawn falls),  natural resources and 
The adoption of management models in line with  identifying effective actions in the management of production processes. environment are 
Spurosdtauicntaiobnle   baocbehsjeite cpvtrieva ecmtsi.ec Aeanss uyar nraedbl aliente taednr dinm actpeioartcnitﬁasal  cbsotlauen lsddu ahsrtadavisen t aeobf fielicttys   IRIS OI1254 •p•emr  TCooiops naesisnsoptsaniirntsey ti  ltntyoot mwo c oatohrnndetiis tna ortuerm octhyuocessl p iqinmhugeap ranrenot.idvtie enmsa toeunf rmta ilna rt ewesraoiasutlrsec  uemss,ea andva (ogcihedeminmegin cttah,l esw ,c hpoiocnhltya mimnceilnrusad)t teioos n ka eonef e psvo ueilnr -adinnecdrr  ecwoaanstitenrrog.l   ef•on lCtlorEuwOsi tonefgd t  hﬁtoeg  utGhrreeos u:p 
both within and outside the Group • Director of the 
business unit 
OBJECTIVES AND GOALS
NATURAL  The objectives and goals taken for the material themes of this macro-theme are developed following what is  • Manufacturing sites 
RESOURCES described in the section "Processes common to all macro-themes". managers
AND  In the context of 
ENVIRONMENT GRI 306: Efﬂuents and  RESOURCES management system, 
The application, when possible, of the best  Waste 2016 Assigning human and ﬁnancial resources is under the responsibility of the plant manager who draws up an  the theme is addressed 
Waste  reduction practices, through prevention, and  investment plan approved by the business unit administrator and the general management. entrusting the 
Management  waste recycling. Any related impacts could have  directional 
effects both within and outside the Group. 306-2 Total weight of waste by type  COMPLAINTS MECHANISMS responsibility to the 
and method of disposal The mechanisms with which it is possible to place any complaints related to this macro theme are  plant manager, who is 
developed following what is described in the section "Processes common to all macro-themes". supported by a person 
responsible for the 
SPECIFIC ACTIONS management system 
The business unit Prima Components has adopted an environmental management system that, thanks to  and an operational 
Responsible use of water thanks to technologies  GRI 303: Water and  303-1 Water taken by sources of  an audit process and periodic reviews, provides for the control, monitoring and possibly the mitigation of  structure.
and practices aimed at reducing the quantity  efﬂuents 2018 supply  negative impacts on the environment.
Protection of water  withdrawn and maintaining its original quality.   The Group adopts tools for assessing and quantifying energy and environmental loads and potential 
resources Any related impacts could have effects both  306-1 Total water drains for quality  impacts of products and processes through:
and destination
within and outside the Group. • External analysis laboratories for the assessment of the main environmental impacts (emissions, 
discharges, noise, waste), dedicated internal resources and external consulting ﬁrms for the energy 
assessment of individual sites.
• Involvement of all the professional skills necessary for development, management and control activities
• Adoption and maintenance of an environmental management system.
Biodiversity Consider biodiversity as a resource to be  304-1 Location and size of lands  For most plants, the management system is also certiﬁed according to ISO14001.
protected, as a common value that is essential for  GRI 304: Biodiversity  owned, leased or managed within or 
the company, the territories and the communities  2016 near protected areas or areas with  EVALUATION ON THE MANAGEMENT
linked to it. Any related impacts could have  high biodiversity value Evaluation mechanisms on the management of material themes related to the "Natural Resources and 
effects outside the Group. environment "are developed following what is described in the section "Processes common to all 
macro-theme”.
.
PAGE 120