3.2 RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION
Sole Oderzo is developing a three-year project (to be further extended to eight months), which includes an annuity of € 
5.980.824,70, with expiry date on 2 January 2020. 
The aim of this project is to develop materials, alongside highly sustainable and flexible technology. This would help to produce 
new lines of components for car exterior and interior, which will be able to meet the main present needs and to keep up with 
the latest market trends.
Among them, external plastic car body was empowered by scratch-resistant feature through solutions alternative to traditional 
methods and painting; the foretaste of new aesthetics design concepts, based on new effects achieved through backlight 
system; finally, fuel consumption and gas emissions were reduced by making lighter vehicles and thanks to metal components 
replacement with thermoplastic composites with high mechanical strength performance. 
As regards the environmental sustainability, the main strengths of the new technology are: reduction of the number of parts in 
a product, from which it comes weight decrease, as well as a reduction of energy consumption. This was due to the elimination 
of the assembly phase; elimination of the painting and chrome-plating processes, which are crucial from an environmental 
point of view. It was found a more effective product recycling as the paint film is so reduced that it does not affect recycling and 
disposal stage; despite making a lighter product, all the mechanical properties were retained compatible with the lightweight 
revolution trend, which aims at reducing the weight and, consequently, also the environmental impact of vehicles. In this way, 
they release less polluting substances, produce less CO2 and consume less. 
This research project is funded by Fondo Crescita Sostenibile, established by the Article 6 of the ministerial decree, 15 October 
2014, and headed by Sole Oderzo. 
This company, in the reporting year, has developed eight other projects for which it has accrued  tax credit for research and 
development activities, according to the article 3, legislative decree 145/2013, replaced by the article 1, paragraph 35, law 
190/2014, and implemented by the ministerial decree 27/05/2015. 
PAGE 43