4.3 HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK
Every worker, without being affected negatively, will  be free to refuse to carry on activities if considered risky, in case this is not 
managed by the prevention and protection system. 
All PSC factories in Italy have workers’ safety representatives, for the minimum legal requirements, according to the 
provisions by Legislative Decree Law 81/08. However, for the premises abroad, a specific legislation in force will be applied 
and all employees will be protected by national agreements. The representatives for workers safety serve the purpose of 
spokesperson and communicate with business management during meetings, which take place on an annual basis, in regard to 
the related matters.
In Sole Woerth factory, a specific training course for all workers is carried out by an external company twice a year, in order to 
identify and to assess risks in the workplace. The quality manager, in collaboration with business management, coordinates 
the resources so to identify and to eliminate risks, through an ongoing training process. Daily activities report on this activity 
is issued on a monthly basis and it is given to the business management. If no significant aspects are identified, these reports 
will be archived, even if an action planning will be prepared to look into this matter. Furthermore, thanks to a specific form, the 
workers can report if they are not able to carry out activities due to risk situations, pursuant to national agreements. 
In PSMM factory of Pernambuco, risk identification and assessment is developed and managed by the “health and safety” 
function. If during the evaluation, measures are not adequate to classify the risk, as acceptable or moderate, actions will be 
implemented to minimize it.
In this factory, there are formal committees that deal with health and safety at work on behalf of the company’s employees, 
such as: 
CIPA - Internal Commission for accidents prevention at work 
COERGO - Ergonomics Committee that assesses ergonomic improvement needs in several fields. 
Workers can report risk situations by filling out a special form, analyzed by the PSMM security department which, in 
collaboration with the area managers, will implement accurate actions. Workers can also report any risk situations to the 
PAGE 64