4.3 HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK
Internal Commission on Accident Prevention (CIPA), made up of all area representatives; the Board and the management area 
meet monthly with “health and safety” executives. In any case,  workers will not be subject to consequences. Also in PSMM 
factory, workers can refuse to carry out activities, if considered hazardous, according to national agreement.
In the Proprad factory, risk assessment is carried out by an external firm. Quality manager is responsible for the company and 
its external consultants. Likewise, factory workers who perceive risky situations shall inform their supervisors.
In two plants of GSI UK, risk assessment is carried out by an external firm  through COSHH application procedure, with the 
control of hazardous substances which are dangerous for health. The Plant Manager and the external consultant are both 
responsible for the application procedure of risk assessment.
For the GSI DE factory, no risk assessment documentation is available as it is not provided by the National Law. However, 
meetings with RSPP are held on a regular basis. On this occasion, all possible risk or dangerous situations shall be analysed 
by taking relevant action, in order to work them out. Employees can inform the possibility of risk anonymously, also by using a 
dedicated email address. 
All PSC Italian factories have appointed a competent doctor to carry out those activities laid down by Legislative Decree 81/08, 
as amended, collaborating with them in all the related operations. Every year, this doctor draws up a health surveillance plan: 
in this document, all risks connected to each task are described. In addition, he arranges regular preventive medical checks, 
carries out workplace inspections, attends regular meetings on this topic and helps to prepare the risk assessment evaluation. 
Regarding the factories abroad, the role of a competent doctor is also engaged as a support for all those activities aiming at 
risk identification, assessment and management. PSC ensures workers access to the competent doctor, in accordance with 
existing agreements.
All PSC employees receive accurate training on health and safety, where the factories are located, according to the national 
law.  
In some plants of the Group, workplace health promotion programs are achieved; they speak about: anti-smoking campaign, 
healthy diet and proper usage of mobile phone. Furthermore, several plants have a convention with sports facilities.
PAGE 65