1.2 HISTORY AND PARTNERSHIPS
1973 1980-86 1987 1989 1991 1993 1994
PRIMA  The production of  PRIMA  The ﬁrst design and  Cabling PRIMA  PRIMA Eastern was  SAPCA company was 
(stock-company)  foamed components for  (stock-company)  industrialization center of  is founded,  established in Torino of  established in 
starts furniture  the automotive,  becomes a FIAT  PRIMA (stock-company)  active in the  Sangro, meant to  Modugno. 
accessories  aeronautic and railway  supplier for plastic  and PRIMA I.Ver, a  wiring market  manufacture plastic 
production.  sectors begins. components  company for painting  for Automotive. products, mainly for the 
designed for the  plastic materials, was  FVC SEVEL plant.
outside of cars. established.
1996 1999 2000 2001 2003 2006
PRIMA (stock-company) takes over from  PRIMA (stock-company) enters  PRIMA 
The Eripress  Prima (stock-company) inaugurates  Prima 
Piaggio in the Metalplastic company. In the  the ﬁeld of appliances with the  (stock-company) 
companies of Cicerale  two production sites abroad: Prima  (stock-company) 
same year, after Tecnoproduct  creation of the P.A.D. and the  opens its ﬁrst 
and Shandrani Italy  Germany GmbH and Prima Poprad  acquires Collins & 
acquisition,TECNOPRIMA was established.  acquisition of Almec  factory abroad, 
are acquired (with a  sro (Slovakia), ﬁrst active in the  Aikman Italy 
With the sale of Cabling PRIMA and Sapca,  (stock-company), active in the  PRIMA France sas.
new name  household appliances sector as  Limited and its 
PRIMA (stock-company) comes out of the  automotive sector.
(I.Ver.Plast.). well as automotive afterwards. four production 
wiring sector.
plants.
2007 2010 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
With the sale of  Prima (stock-company)  The internal reorganization is  PSMM Pernabuco was  A new plant was  PSC, through TWICE PS, rents  PSC acquires 99% of 
Almec, Prima  acquires Plastal Italy, then  completed with the integration  established as a joint  inaugurated in  a company branch of SGI, a  PSMM Campania, in 
(stock-company)  Sole (stock-company), and  of Prima and Sole  venture with Magneti  Gricignano  company with plants in Italy,  partnership with 
abandons the  holdings in Finalloy  (stock-companies) as operating  Marelli for the production of  d'Aversa, in  Austria, England, Germany  Magneti Marelli.
die-casting  companies (aluminum  structures. Prima Sole  automotive plastic  partnership with  and Brazil, entering the 
sector. sector), Optimares (aircraft  Components (stock-company)  components based in  Magneti Marelli. thermosetting sector.
seats). was established. Pernabuco (Brazil).
PAGE 9