  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019   ▪ 1 
 
Letter to the stakeholders 
 
 
 
Dear stakeholders,  
 
What happened in 2019 is part of the strategic framework that has already been set in 
place for a few years now, which has at its basis the desire to shift the Group's position, 
with the aim of making it grow.  
Since 23 December 2019, Orsero's shares have been listed on the STAR segment of the 
Italian Stock Exchange, at the end of a process that saw the Group first entering the AIM 
market, thanks to the merger with Glenalta in February 2017, and finally reach the main 
market, with a qualitative leap from both the stock's visibility standpoint and also from 
the necessary implementation of the internal governance structure perspective, of which 
a full account is given in the "Governance Report". 
With regard to the acquisitions made during the year, in line with the Group's mission to 
focus its strategy on its core business, in January 2019 the Spanish subsidiary Hermanos 
Fernández López S.A. acquired the entire capital of Sevimpor Distribuidora De Frutas De 
Importacion S.L., a company dedicated to the wholesale distribution of fresh fruit and 
vegetables and specialized in the billing of bananas from the Canary Islands. In March 
2019 an agreement was reached for the acquisition of the Fruttica Group. 
The Fruttica Group specializes in the import and wholesale distribution of fruit and vege-
tables, with a particular focus on the distribution of Italian-produced grapes in France 
(approx. 50% of the volume), melons, pears and vegetables and is based in Cavaillon, 
Provence, where the Orsero Group is already established with its own logistics platform. 
The Fruttica Group distributes over 20,000 tons of fruit and vegetables per year to custom-
ers mainly belonging to the large-scale retail trade, with an annual turnover of 24 million 
euro and Adjusted Ebitda of over 2.5 million euro.  
In June 2019, an agreement was reached for the acquisition, completed in early July and 
effective on the 1st of July 2019, of the remaining 75% of the capital of the company 
Fruttital Cagliari, which specialises in the wholesale distribution of fruit and vegetables in 
Sardinia and in which the Orsero Group had already previously held the remaining 25% 
of the share capital. 
At the end of the year the deeds of purchase of the Solgne warehouse (20 December 
2019) and the warehouses in Milan, Verona, Rome and Molfetta (14 January 2020) 
owned by the related party company Nuova Beni Immobiliari S.r.l. were completed. 
 