   
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  2019   ▪ 27 
at the reference date. The occurrence of such circumstances, considered to be 
of low probability of occurrence, would entail a risk of having significant effects 
on the Group's economic, financial and equity situation. This risk is considered to 
be of medium importance. It should be noted that the contracts with the large-
scale retail trade are regulated by framework agreements, which govern the 
main specific characteristics of the product delivered. Except in certain specific 
cases, product volumes and prices are defined on a weekly basis, also in order 
to manage certain factors not necessarily related to the product, such as, for 
example, the euro/dollar exchange rate or the cost of oil which is reflected in 
the cost of transport. In this context, the Orsero Group has always responded 
with a strategy aimed at increasing its size and with a continuous effort to adapt 
and improve efficiency, with the aim of protecting the basic economic effi-
ciency of its operations. From 2012, the start of the marketing of bananas and 
pineapples under its own brand represents an effective strategic response by a 
structured and mature group to a radical change in the mechanisms of its core 
business. The Orsero Group is well aware of the risk associated with this chal-
lenge, but believes that it is balanced by a unique opportunity to create over 
time a name and a quality Italian brand able to stay on the market and com-
pete with the major multinationals in the sector. 
 
Financial Risks  
In the exercise of its activities, the Orsero Group is exposed to financial risks con-
nected with its operations, in particular it is exposed to credit risk, liquidity risk 
and market risk (including currency risk, interest rate risk and price risk). The man-
agement of financial risks is carried out within the framework of precise organi-
zational guidelines that govern the management of the same and the control 
of all transactions that have a significant impact on the composition of financial 
and/or commercial assets and liabilities.  
 
   
 