   
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  2019   ▪ 32 
Stakeholder  Stakeholder expectations  Engagement method 
Guarantee of product quality, relia-
In-depth meetings with retailers on 
Clients  bility and transparency. Continuity in 
the main themes of the sector. 
the supply of products. 
Customers  Maximization  of  costumer  value:  Communication on the official page 
guarantee of quality and availability  and  on  social  networks,  manage-
of products.  ment of complaints. 
Suppliers  Relationship based on fairness, trans- Involvement and monitoring of the 
parency and compliance with con- "safety at work" issues. Development 
tractual agreements. Creation and  of partnership projects. Ad hoc rela-
distribution of value. Prompt commu- tional events. 
nication and sharing of business strat-
egy. 
Employees and La- Work relationship based on fairness,  Granting of employee benefits, or-
bour Unions  respect and enhancement of per- ganization of business activities and 
sonal skills and attitudes. Monitoring  events.  Meetings  between  em-
of health and safety conditions in the  ployees and management. 
workplace. 
Shareholders and Fi- Creation  and  distribution  of  value.  Issuing of press releases, roadshow or-
nancial community  Corporate  Governance  and  Risk  ganization and meetings with inves-
Management. Transparency and ti- tors. Presentation of the Group's stra-
meliness in financial information. Re- tegy and future projects. 
presentativeness of minorities. 
Media  Transparency and timeliness of infor- Press releases. Events with the eco-
mation, frequent dialogue.  nomic press. Events related to  the 
presentation of the Group's strategy 
and future projects. 
Institutions and Go- Collaboration, technical support and  Dedicated  meetings,  work  tables 
vernments  information sharing. Participation in  and conferences. 
  the  territorial  planning  of activities. 
Compliance with current legislation 
in all countries where the company 
operates. 
NGOs and local  Listening to local associations, dia- Social activities with local communi-
community  logue with the community. Contribu- ties in line with the business. Promo-
tion and support to local initiatives  tion of local initiatives. 
and local communities. Access to in-
formation. Protection of heritage and 
the environment. 
 
 
 
 