   
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  2019   ▪ 42 
   
focus on: 
Respect for nature and organic agriculture  
 
Within the offer of the Orsero Group there is also a part of products coming from 
organic farming. Organic farming is a method of cultivation that has been growing 
more and more in recent years. An agriculture where the agricultural ecosystem is 
considered as a balanced model for the development of cultivated plants and 
based on respect: respect for natural cycles, soil and water, plants and animals. 
Respect also for people and the planet we live on.  
In order for a farmer to be certified organic he must cultivate the land organically 
for at least three years, to ensure that the soil is cleaned of any chemical agents or 
toxic waste. The objective of organic farming is to produce in an environmentally 
friendly way, exploiting ecosystem services and the natural properties of natural 
resources.  
A) The organic cultivation of fruit, vegetables and fruit and vegetables requires that 
all propagation material (plants, seeds, etc.) comes only from organic farming, 
that the organic and mineral fertilizers used are permitted under EU-European leg-
islation, and that the protection of plants from insects and pests is carried out using 
natural methods.  
B) The organic cultivation of fruit, vegetables and fruit and vegetables requires that 
the entire production process is carried out in accordance with European regula-
tions which define, among other things, that the propagation material (plants, 
seeds, etc.) comes only from organic farming, that the organic and mineral fertiliz-
ers are included in special lists and that the protection of plants from insects and 
pests is carried out by natural methods. 
Each stage of the production process is monitored to keep track of the entire sup-
ply chain and to ensure the quality certification of the products. In particular, Eu-
ropean legislation provides for a complex system of chain controls that guarantees 
maximum transparency on what arrives on our tables.  
The Orsero Group markets organic products, to offer the maximum taste and qual-
ity while respecting nature.  Among the organic products offered by the Group, 
bananas and pineapples stand out, produced in the most suitable areas of Central 
America with sustainable methods and in compliance with specific European reg-
ulations. Since 2018 the Group has been studying a more sustainable packaging 
for our F.lli Orsero bananas (standard and organic). The tray is made with 100% 
recycled paper and vegetable-based inks. 
 