   
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  2019   ▪ 44 
 
 
 
focus on: 
The new market trends and the IV line, juices 
and smoothies 
 
The focus on adopting a healthy lifestyle and proper nutrition is increasingly com-
mon nowadays, especially among young people. A healthy and nutritious diet, 
rich in fruit and vegetables, is fundamental for health and well-being: including fruit 
in your diet guarantees the right amount of mineral salts, vitamins and micronutri-
ents essential for the body. The Orsero Group promotes attention to health and, in 
addition to ensuring the excellence of its products, gives everyone the opportunity 
to enjoy fresh fruit at any time and in any place. From 2014, in fact, a line of Fresh 
Cut F.lli Orsero has been launched: fruit of Extra Premium quality, ripe to the right 
point, selected every morning, handcrafted and packaged without the addition 
of any liquid. The new Fresh Cut F.lli Orsero line includes convenient ready-to-use 
packages, equipped with fork in on-the-go formats. The fruit is washed, cut and 
packaged to reach the consumer ready to be enjoyed at any time of the day. The 
packaging process takes place in the Group's latest-generation laboratories, lo-
cated in Florence, Molfetta, Verona and Cagliari, for a total of 3,500 square meters 
of dedicated work space. The plants are ISO 9001 certified and equipped with the 
most advanced technologies for fruit cutting in order to obtain the highest quality, 
hygiene and safety standards of the product while maintaining the organoleptic 
qualities. Located in geographically strategic areas, they provide a rapid and 
widespread service throughout the country. 
The positioning of the processing rooms inside or near the first gamma plants guar-
antees direct access to a raw material that is always fresh and of high quality. 
The attention to provide always new healthy and comfortable products to be en-
joyed even outside the home, has led the Orsero Group to launch a wide range of 
freshly squeezed juices and smoothies branded F.lli Orsero, cold processed using 
HPP technology. 
 