   
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  2019   ▪ 49 
bananas and pineapples. The search for a direct dialogue between Orsero and its sup-
pliers is one of the major secrets of Orsero's success: thanks to the long-term relationships 
established with suppliers, a safe and quality supply is guaranteed.  
 
  Once picked, the fruit and vegetables are ready for transport: by ship, 
iron-rail or road, Orsero products arrive at the Group's warehouses 
from every corner of the planet. Logistical efficiency is also guar-
anteed by the activity of the fleet owned by "Cala Rossa", which 
transports fresh exotic products from the Americas. The direct 
  ownership of the ships, together with Orsero's many years of ex-
perience, gives the Group a competitive advantage, as well as 
direct control over each product. Arriving in the main European 
ports, the ships in the fleet handled around 480,000 pallets during 
the year.  
 
Quality control is one of the major strengths of the Orsero 
Group: at every stage of the supply chain, during transport, in 
and out of the warehouses, the products pass through strict 
 
quality controls. Each product must comply with the quality 
standards imposed by the Group: for this reason more than 7 
thousands6 check every day only in Europe.  
 
The secret of Orsero's success also lies in the 
expertise gained in over 70 years of activity. Every day, fruit and vege-
tables from all over the world are stored and processed with special 
care. The cold chain is never interrupted, to ensure maximum freshness 
 
and quality of the products. In the warehouses managed by the 
Group, products are stored and processed to offer customers tailor-
made solutions. The ripening phase takes place in full respect of the 
products, thanks to the use of ethylene. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
6 The data relating to the quality controls carried out by the Group is the result of estimates made using the 
best available methods. The scope of the information is limited to the European companies of the Orsero Group. 
 