   
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  2019   ▪ 51 
Selection and control of suppliers 
The secret of the Orsero group are the professional and personal relationships that turn 
the suppliers into strategic partners. Thanks to the experience and passion that distinguish 
the Group, over 1,500 suppliers work with Orsero. The Orsero Group promotes dialogue 
with suppliers and a responsible and sustainable supply chain management, to guaran-
tee, on a daily basis, maximum transparency of the origin of the products. 
 
The Group's strategy for managing the value chain is to establish solid relationships of trust 
and collaboration with its suppliers: the Orsero Group is committed to maintaining direct 
contact with local suppliers, to monitor compliance with ethical standards, as to raise 
awareness and train all suppliers on the aspects that can influence the quality and safety 
of the products. The result of this approach is a strong consolidation of supplies and the 
preservation of relationships over time, to guarantee the maximum quality of the prod-
ucts and a stable and secure supply. 
 
Among the most important suppliers of the Orsero Group there are renowned brands, 
such as Chiquita, Zespri, Melinda and many others. The constant dialogue and the con-
solidated relationship with the Group's suppliers guarantee relationships of trust, so that 
all the products have the characteristics desired by the customers. 
 
When new suppliers are selected, it is the consolidated practice of the Group to require 
compliance with some fundamental requirements to guarantee the quality of the supply. 
In particular, a first selection of new suppliers is based on the possession by local farmers 
of internationally recognized certifications, which certify the quality of agricultural prac-
tices and the standards of cultivation and land management: in such way, for the Group 
Orsero, it is possible to constantly keep track and control of its own suppliers. For the time 
being however, there are no official practices currently in force with a specific focus 
onon social and environmental critieria, although in some of the Group’s companies, 
such requirements are demanded for the compilation of the registry office’s suppliers. 
The majority of the Group's suppliers certify the quality of their products and agricultural 
practices through Global GAP and Rainforest Alliance certifications, internationally rec-
ognized certifications, which attest to their adherence to principles of sustainability and 
responsibility.  
 
 
 
 
 