   
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  2019   ▪ 56 
controls are carried out using an automated system. The quality of the loads is subse-
quently verified even at the time of unloading by the employees.   
Each vessel can transport around 10,500 pallets per trip. Half of the cargo, from Central 
America to Europe, is made up of fruit and vegetables from Orsero: the Orsero fleet offers 
a transport and logistics service also to other operators, in order to optimize the transport 
of goods and efficiently exploit every single voyage. The time needed to make the two 
trips, outward and return, from Central America to Europe and vice versa, takes about 
28 days. The average disembarkation time is 18 hours, less than 50% of the time com-
pared to the competition.  
 
Health and safety on board 
The Group operates in compliance with current legislation on safety at work, and adopts 
all the necessary tools to allow employees to work in a healthy and safe work environ-
ment. All workers receive the appropriate training on the correct working practices and 
on the prevention of health and safety risks, both at sea and on land. 
Compliance with the law is a fundamental principle for the Orsero group fleet, and to 
continue to operate in compliance with the law and regulations, a series of checks are 
periodically carried out to verify the conformity and correctness of the transports: at each 
trip and in each port of departure, it is verified that the fleet documentation is regular, so 
that navigation is always controlled and safe. 
Safety at sea   
In addition to putting into practice the activities for the safety of the on-board personnel, 
all those measures aimed at protecting the navigation and transport activity from exter-
nal interventions that can cause dangerous situations, such as piracy, terrorism, smug-
gling of goods and people, illegal discharges into the sea and other environmental ac-
cidents, are also implemented. To prevent any risks deriving from these phenomena, the 
Orsero fleet guarantees adhesion and compliance with national and international regu-
lations and conventions aimed at regulating the behavior to be adopted. 
 
As proof that safety is of the utmost importance for the Group, Cosiarma S.p.A. has en-
tered into an agreement with an agency specialized in the training of maritime and land-
based personnel, for the design, organization and management of training courses and 
tutoring.   
 