   
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  2019   ▪ 61 
Warehouse certifications11  
 
5 warehouses certified ISO 9001 
ISO 9001 certification is the internationally recognized standard for quality 
management: thanks to the analysis and evaluation of risks and opportu-
nities, cost control and waste reduction are guaranteed, ensuring efficient 
management of the processes. 
 
5 warehouses certified IFS  
International Featured Standards are internationally recognized as a cer-
tification for the food sector. It meets the needs of food safety, traceabil-
ity, quality and respect for the environment, considered today by the 
large-scale retail trade essential elements for a basic protocol in the se-
lection and evaluation policies of suppliers.  
 
5 warehouses certified BRC  
It is one of the standards related to food safety recognized by the Global 
Food Safety Initiative (GFSI), whose main purpose is to strengthen and pro-
mote food security along the entire supply chain. The application of the 
BRC is therefore a necessary prerequisite for being able to export its prod-
ucts, and it is a recognized guarantee tool regarding corporate reliability. 
 
5 warehouses certified FAIRTRADE  
Fairtrade is the world's most recognized ethical certification 
brand in the world. Its objective is to support the most disad-
vantaged producers in developing countries, making them 
capable of entering the commercial system in conditions of 
transparency  and  fairness  and  thus  improving  their  living 
standards. 
 
8 warehouses are enabled to the storage of organic products.  
In order for certified organic farming products to be sent and stored 
in the warehouse, it is necessary to have specific certifications, 
which certify food safety standards, and which ensure that any 
treatment is in line with the standards of the biological method. 
 
                                                      
 
11 The perimeter of the information relates only to the warehouses present on the Italian territory. 
 