   
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  2019   ▪ 74 
As of December 3114 2019, the Orsero Group had 1,545 employees in Italy, Spain, France, 
Portugal, Greece, Mexico, Costa Rica and Colombia.  
More than 87% of employees work in Europe: 510 employees of the Group companies in 
Italy account for about 33%, while Spain and France employ 28% and 20% of total Group 
employees respectively.  
The number of employees increased by 87% compared to 2018 (1,436). 
Considering the peculiarity of the sector in which the Group operates, which is largely 
subject to the seasonal nature of its products, numerous external workers and collabora-
tors also contribute to the Group's success, helping to meet market demands while main-
taining the high standards required by the Group. As of 31 December 2019, 92 external 
collaborators represented more than 900 people, with significant variability between 
countries.  
External workers are employed by the Orsero Group through social cooperatives and 
employment agencies. In particular, cooperatives are more commonly used in Italy, with 
most of which consolidated relationships have been established over the years.  
Prior to the execution of the contract and at each renewal, the Orsero Group verifies 
compliance with the authorizations and requirements of the companies. The Group ap-
plies specific procedures to ensure that the agencies comply with national regulations, 
in compliance with labor laws, and that they comply with contractual obligations. Com-
pliance with contracts and remuneration paid to workers, as well as social security con-
tributions and the application of national collective agreements, are also periodically 
checked. The health and safety procedures and information on health and safety, the 
insurance policies taken out and in force are also checked.  
An important role is also played by the maritime personnel of the "Cala Rossa" fleet, which 
ensures the effective and efficient management of logistics. Crewing - i.e. the recruit-
ment of the crew and all related activities - is managed by a third party company, spe-
cialized in freight transport. 
The crew, once recruited, is directly employed by Cosiarma according to the regulations 
of the maritime contract, through specific "enlistment contracts" provided for the sector. 
The total number of seafarers in 2019 was 88, equally divided among the four vessels 
owned by the Group. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY COUNTRY  
                                                      
 
14 The details of the data reported in this chapter relate to the headcount at 31 December of each year. The 
data reported do not include external workers and collaborators (e.g: interns, temporary employment con-
tracts).  
 