ENI FOR 2019 11
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES ON SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS1
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Deﬁnes Examines or approves
• the Corporate Governance system; • the fundamental lines of the internal regulatory 
• the fundamental lines of the organisational,  system and the main corporate regulatory tools;
administrative and accounting set-up and the  • the main risks, including socio-environmental 
guidelines of the internal audit and risk  ones;
management system, assessing their adequacy; • the Policy for the Remuneration of Directors 
• the strategic lines and the objectives, including  and executives;
sustainability objectives, at the CEO’s proposal. • financial and non-financial reporting.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CHAIRMAN
• Bears the main responsibility for managing the  • Central role in the internal control and risk 
company, except the duties reserved to the Board; management system;
• Implements the resolutions of the BoD, informs and  • Steers the BoD's activities and ensures training for 
submits proposals to the BoD and to the Committee. the Directors, including on sustainability matters.
COMMITTEES
SUSTAINABILITY CONTROL REMUNERATION NOMINATION
AND SCENARIOS AND RISK COMMITTEE COMMITTEE
COMMITTEE COMMITTEE
It provides proposals and  It supports the BoD in the  It proposes to the BoD  It supports the BoD in the 
advice to the BoD on  assessments and  the general criteria for  appointments and 
scenarios and  decisions relating to the  incentive plans of the  designations under its 
sustainability and delves  internal audit and risk  CEO and of managers  competence, in the periodic 
further into the  management system,  with strategic  assessments of the 
integration between  and in particular in the  responsibilities, which  directors’ requirements and 
strategy, evolutionary  periodic review, which  include sustainability  in the self-assessment 
scenarios and business  takes place on a  targets process, formulating 
sustainability in the  quarterly basis, of the  opinions to the BoD on the 
medium-long term main risks, including ESG  composition of the BoD and 
risks of its Committees also with 
respect to the competencies 
necessary to express its 
orientation to shareholders 
prior to renewal
ADVISORY BOARD (SINCE JULY 27, 2017)
Analyses the main geopolitical, technological and economic trends, including issues relating to the decarboniza-
tion process. In 2019, the Advisory Board met twice, in April and in July, addressing themes pertaining to new 
environmental regulations, forestry projects and renewable energies and further delving into the evolutions 
occurring on international scenarios.
Management role at the central and local level
In Eni, sustainability cuts across all corporate processes, but also all functions. To ensure that sustainability 
matters are managed from the corporate leadership of all Eni’s companies worldwide, Eni has adopted a busi- CHIEF SERVICES
& STAKEHOLDER 
ness support organisation cutting across all areas (Chief Services & Stakeholder Relations Officer - CSRO) and  RELATIONS OFFICER
responsible for defining the guidelines, methods and tools for managing and promoting sustainability matters,  Support function to all
the business lines
through ever closer integration with operating processes. The sustainability structure has been active since 
2006 and renamed Impresso since 2015: it is a central organisational function (within the CSRO structure) 
that coordinates and supervises sustainability-related activities, from monitoring the evolution of the external  IMPRESSO 
STRUCTURE
environment to defining sustainability targets for the Strategic Plan and to developing initiatives in favour of 
Responsible and Sustainable
the Countries where Eni operates. The integration of sustainability in the business is ensured at the central 
Enterprise
level by the collaboration between the sustainability function and the different functions (staff and business) 
that oversee sustainability matters. At the local branches, Managing Directors (top level managers of the 
corporate structure in the Countries where Eni is active), supported both by the local sustainability contact  LOCAL
LEVEL
persons and by the central sustainability function, are responsible for defining the development plans of the 
Managing Director +
Countries according to local needs. In 2019, a central organisational function was established, which is called  Sustainability liason
Scenarios, Positioning and Medium-long term Plan. Reporting directly to the CFO, it supervises the preparation 
and consolidation of the medium-long term plan and ensured the drafting of the configuration assumptions for 
the portfolio of energy sources for the achievement of the targets in the Plan, including ESG targets. 
1) For additional information about the roles and responsibilities of the BoD and of the Committees on sustainability matters, please refer to the Corporate Governance and Shareholding 
Structure Report Eni, published on the eni.com website.
2) The Disclosure of non-financial information, included in the Annual Financial Report, is prepared in accordance with Italian Legislative Decree 254/2016 which transposed European Directive 95/2014.
3) For additional information about climate change, please refer to “Eni for - Carbon neutrality in the long term”, and on human rights, please refer to “Governance on human rights” on p. 43.
4) Severity Incident Rate (SIR): internal Eni indicator calculating total recordable injuries relative to the number of hours worked, taking into account the level of severity of the incident on the 
basis of the days of absence of work.
5) For additional information, please refer to Eni’s Report on remuneration policy and remuneration paid available on eni.com.