14
Sustainability priorities
37 Each year Eni updates the analysis for the definition of the material aspects, which includes the pri-
orities for all Eni relevant stakeholders, external and internal, and identifies the challenges and key 
Countries where  opportunities of the entire cycle of activities for the creation of value in the long term.
stakeholder issues 
were collected
Identification of internal and external topics
The issues of the relevant stakeholders are mapped both through a dedicated platform (Stakeholder Man-
agement System - SMS), which supports the management of local stakeholders, and through interviews 
with the functions responsible for managing their relations on an ongoing basis throughout the year. Fur-
thermore, to identify the relevant aspects, the main ESG risks are also considered, as defined through 
the integrated risk management model, as well as the results of the scenario analyses carried out by Eni.
Analysis of priority topics
The materiality of the topics identified is defined on the basis of the priority analyses:
3,500
> 1. of the scenario elements – defined on the basis of the topics that were addressed during the meet-
Stakeholders whose  ings of the Sustainability and Scenarios Committee (SSC) in 2019;
issues have been 
2. of the main ESG risks resulting from the Integrated Risk Management (IRM) process, which also 
analyzed in the 
materiality definition  takes into account the evidence provided by external providers, including RepRisk6. These risks 
process
are assessed also considering potential environmental, social, health and safety and reputational 
impacts;
3. of the relevance of the stakeholders and the related issues.
The combination of these analyzes, including the priority issues for all the relevant stakeholders, allows 
to have a perspective both internal and external to the company.
Sharing and validation with the Governance body
The management involved in the non-financial reporting process validated the material aspects, which 
were also presented to the SSC and the BoD, together with the related analysis.
Planning, definition of MBOs and Reporting
The material topics thus identified are the basis for the development of the four-year Strategic Plan, 
which, by combining economic-financial and sustainability objectives, enables an integrated strategic 
planning. Furthermore, these aspects, enriched with specific context analyses of the socio-economic, 
environmental and cultural aspects of the Countries of presence, allow to define the priorities of the 
Strategic Plan at local level and to define the activities for the promotion of local development (for fur-
ther information see p. 53). Once the Strategic Plan is finalized, the sustainability managerial objectives 
(MBOs) are attributed to all managers. Finally, the material topics allow to identify the content of Eni’s 
non-financial reporting (Consolidated disclosure of Non-Financial Information and Eni for).
MATERIALITY PROCESS
ANALISYS SHARING AND 
IDENTIFICATION PLANNING, MBOs 
OF INTERNAL VALIDATION WITH 
OF RELEVANT  AND REPORTING
AND EXTERNAL  THE GOVERNANCE 
TOPICS
PRIORITIES BODY
6) RepRisk is a provider for the materiality analysis of ESG risks relating to companies, sectors, Countries and issues, whose calculation model is based on the collection and classification 
of information (i.e. “risk incidents”) from the media, other stakeholders and public sources outside the companies.