18
Technological development
957 A key element for Eni’s transformation into an integrated energy company with an ever lower carbon 
€  MLN
footprint is Research and Development (R&D), which includes both the availability and the develop-
R&D investments planned  ment of cutting-edge technological competencies, and the continuous effort to multiply the scope of 
for 2020-2023
the identified energy solutions. Innovation is, for Eni, a lever to create value and grow as a company, 
80 through the development of new technologies and their rapid field implementation on an industri-
%
al scale. Research projects pertain to every aspect of the production chain, with the goal of reducing 
to be invested in the  risks and increasing efficiency, consolidating technological leadership and generally obtaining more 
path to long-term carbon 
neutrality quality, efficiency and sustainability in products, plants and processes. Efficiency also pertains to the 
minimisation of direct CO emissions, the reduction of waste and the valorisation of scrap materials to 
2
assure the smallest possible environmental impact. In addition to its 7 research centres in Italy, Eni 
collaborates with internationally recognised centres of excellence, such as the Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology (MIT), with which it has had relations since 2008, or the Italian National Research 
Council (CNR) since 2009. From 2008 Eni has established the Eni Award, the “Nobel prize” for energy, 
to develop better utilisation of energy sources and recognises new generations of researchers, with the 
award ceremony conducted in the presence of the President of Italy. Throughout the years, the Award 
has evolved, encompassing matters like environmental clean-up, the innovative use of hydrocarbons 
and renewable energies, focusing on developing Countries and on the ideas of young students and Eni’s 
people. In 12 years, 78 researchers from 5 continents have been recognised.
194 R&D EXPENDITURES IN 2019 (€ mln)
€  MLN
SAFETY AND RISK REDUCTION 19.6
Total R&D 
OTHER, INCLUDING EXPLORATION 72.4
expenses in 2019
RENEWABLES 24.4
7,686 GREEN CHEMISTRY 14.3
BIOREFINING  8.1
Current patents GAS VALORISING 14.1
ENERGY EFFICIENCY 3.3
15
ENVIRONMENT 5.2
EMISSION REDUCTION 33.0
First patent filing 
applicationson renewable 
sources DECARBONIZATION
Tangible value generated by R&D
Eni is also committed to identifying the value generated by applying innovative technologies developed 
both in-house and with third parties. In 2019, the estimated tangible value generated was €1,126 mil-
lion, an increase from the previous year thanks mainly to the contribution of: 
• Proprietary software boosting the accuracy of the analyses carried out, for example reducing explo-
ration risk and shortening the assets’ time-to-market;
• Technologies that enable to identify the best structures during drilling, allowing the optimal position-
ing of wells in a timely manner and boosting their productivity;
• Software to optimise operating parameters in real time, with consequent increase in the efficiency of 
field operations;
• New fuels with low carbon impact, energy saving lubricants and biochemicals. 
To promote internal competencies, Eni has undertaken to disseminate technical knowledge across all 
structures also through the Knowledge Management System (e-kms).
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION:
Eni for 2019 - Carbon neutrality in the long term; eni.com website: collaborations with MIT and CNR