ENI FOR 2019 19
Digitalization
The digital transformation launched by Eni is a process that changes people’s way of working, exploiting  105
€  MLN
the potential of digital technologies. Digital transformation is an opportunity for everyone: it allows to 
operate more safely (see p. 33), it provides for new ways of working, it fosters and enhances compe- Invested in digital 
transformation
tencies. Through interaction with technology, people act more rapidly, efficiently and flexibly, allowing 
the company to be more sustainable with respect to the environment and to stakeholders and more 
competitive in the reference market, sustaining energy transition. For the transformation to take place 
organically, a structured change management path is necessary, to renew the corporate culture and 
change the traditional approach to work, identifying more flexible, streamlined paths and appropri-
ate tools to involve people rationally and emotionally. In 2019, €105 million were invested in digital 
transformation focused on personnel safety, asset integrity, efficiency and effectiveness of operat-
ing and internal processes and attention to customers, obtaining economic benefits in the amount of  
173
€173 million. These benefits originate from upstream (drilling, reservoir, surface facility management,  €  MLN
inspection, survey and mapping using drones), Refining & Marketing and Eni gas e luce (customer  Benefits generated by 
value & centricity areas). digital transformation
The components of the digital transformation
“The inauguration 
DIGITAL BUSINESS UNIT  DIGITAL COMPETENCE CENTER
of the HPC5 is an 
Serves of all Eni business lines for the digital  To enhance systems and methods, hire, train, 
important time in 
transformation of the company. develop new professional roles and for the 
the path toward the 
upskilling of traditional roles. The study of Big Data 
energy transition. It’s 
provides useful information for Eni’s activities.
“LIGHTHOUSE” PROJECTS  another step forward 
For the digitalization in Italy and abroad of  towards the global 
upstream industrial plants (offshore and  PROCESSES goal that we share 
onshore), downstream plants (refineries and  Digitalization of business support functions  with our research and 
petrochemical sites), to improve the efficiency,  such as integrated risk management,  technology partners: 
safety and sustainability of the operations. negotiation activities, audits. making tomorrow’s 
energy an even closer 
OPEN INNOVATION CALL reality” 
1) Innovation challenge for defining new Data Science models and predictions for Security;   Claudio Descalzi, Eni CEO
2) “Digital HR: innovate to grow” call for training and for renewing the engagement, feedback 
and employee relations management process; 3) “Smart&Efficient Buildings” call by Eni gas  
e luce to make buildings more efficient, independent, safe and comfortable.
LAUNCH OF THE EVOLUTION OF THE SUPER-COMPUTING INFRASTRUCTURE IN THE GREEN DATA CENTER 
In October 2019, Eni started building the new HPC5 supercomputing system, commissioned in early 
2020, supporting the ongoing digitalization and transformation path.
The new HPC5 supercomputing system is added to the current HPC4, compared to which it triples com-
puting power, allowing the execution of 52 million billion mathematical operations per second. From 
2020 onwards, the entire structure of the Green Data Center has a total peak power of 70 PetaFlop/s. 
BIG DATA: HPC5 allows the use of “big data” generated during the operations of all productive assets, 
and allows to further accelerate Eni’s transformation path thanks to the improvement in the processes 
relating to the new energy sources, supporting the development energy from the sea, research on mag-
netic confinement fusion, on climate and on technologies for the environment. 
ENERGY EFFICIENCY: HPC5 was developed to achieve the highest possible level of energy efficiency, 
also exploiting the energy generated by the photovoltaic field installed at the Green Data Center, thereby 
reducing emissions and operating costs.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION:
eni.com website: HPC5