28 CARBON NEUTRALITY IN THE LONG TERM    OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE MODEL    ALLIANCES FOR THE PROMOTION OF LOCAL DEVELOPMENT
7,590 Diversity & Inclusion - The culture of plurality
Every person with his and her individual personality contributes to create value in support of Eni’s ob-
Women in Eni in 2019 jectives and major transformations. In 2019, Eni promoted a series of initiatives directed at increasing 
+3.9% vs. 2018
inclusion sensitivity, such as the internal communication formats entitled “D&I Matters”, focusing on 
98
% Unconscious Bias10 and the freely accessed courses in Eni’s training platform to provide perspectives 
and tools to recognise the value of every type of diversity. 
Remuneration 
women vs. men Eni’s strong international presence has always been characterised by strong alliances with host Coun-
29 tries, with the goal of creating value also through the transfer of knowledge, while respecting local 
% cultures. Confirming this in the upstream sector, the percentage of local employees out of the entire 
Female presence in the BoD  workforce increases markdely in the Countries of Eni’s historical presence (86%) (e.g. Nigeria, Congo, 
of the subsidiaries
Egypt, Libya and Kazakhstan) compared to Countries of recent entry (e.g. Mexico, United Arab Emir-
26 ates and Myanmar), where the know-how transfer process is still ongoing. Moreover, in all Countries 
%
where it operates, Eni guarantees minimum remuneration levels for local personnel significantly above 
Women in positions of 
responsibility +1 p.p. vs. 2018 the market’s.
LOCAL ENI PEOPLE IN THE UPSTREAM SECTOR
(%)
14%
86% 70%
86
% Countries with Recent
a historical entry
Local employees in Countries  presence Countries LOCALS
of historical presence
EXPATRIATES
30%
RATIO BETWEEN ENI MINIMUM WAGE POLICY AND MARKET MINIMUM WAGE (1ST DECILE)
(middle manager – senior staff – employee)
Eni defines reference 
wage levels in a 
minimum/maximum 
range in relation 
to the market data 
of each individual 
Country
100 - 125
126 - 150
151 - 175
176 - 225
226 - 275
> 275
The main diversity & inclusion actions carried out in 2019 are:
• collaborations with the academic world to promote “technical-professional” career paths with a focus on 
the attraction of female talents (such as Think About Tomorrow - paths for young women, Elis - School 
Enterprise system, InspirinGirls, WomENcourage) and workshops at universities, also involving corporate 
role models (over 100 colleagues);
• initiatives promoted by Italian and international associations, such as Valore D and ERT (European Round 
Table) to share best practices, identify common actions to valorise female leadership; the commitment 
continues to support the Manifesto of female employment signed in 2017 (Italy);
• MAAM – Maternity as a Master programs, to turn the parenting experience for mums and dads into an 
opportunity to discover and train soft skills, also essential on the job;
• initiatives to promote geographic mobility, approximately 7,000 persons in 2019, of which 56% for activities 
abroad;
10) “Diversity & Inclusion”, with focus on Unconscious Bias.