ENI FOR 2019 29
• distance learning courses supporting expatriate and International personnel (Italian and otherwise) hav- “Eni provides equal 
ing their first experience abroad; opportunities without 
• first international internal hackathon “The Six-Legged Hack 2019, Worldwide Edition” - 9 international stag- any discrimination based 
es, presentation of over 100 projects, 400 colleagues of different nationalities of 38 Countries, divided in  on race, colour, gender, 
diverse teams in terms of professional and cultural background, by gender and by age; religion, nationality, 
• initiatives to promote intergenerational exchanges, such as the Mentoring project, in which experienced  political preferences, 
managers support the professional path of younger resources, and the Eni Faculty, with over 800 active  sexual orientation, social 
trainers to valorise the internal capital of knowledge and develop the ability to transmit it. status, age or any other 
Some of these initiatives contribue to consolidate female presence in the company, which in 2019 increased  personal condition not 
by 3.9% vs. 2018 for a total of 7,590 women in the workforce, accounting for 24.23% of all employees. In 2019,  relevant to the work 
women accounted for 32.3% of total hires (+3.2 p.p. vs. 2018). requirements”
Policy: our people
Welfare
Eni invests in welfare initiatives to promote engagement, the creation of a climate oriented to collaboration 
and to pursue diversity and inclusion goals. This is possible thanks to an offer of services, initiatives and 
tools directed at improving employees’ well-being.
Main welfare initiatives in 2019
WORK-LIFE BALANCE PARENTING (IN THE WORLD)
Extension of smart working to all workers in  Allowance of 10 workdays at full pay, for both 
Italy in non-operational locations and to all  parents in all Countries of presence. Allowed 
employees who are new parents or disabled  worldwide are both 14 minimum weeks of leave 
or have disabled family members. for the primary carer as per ILO convention, and 
2019 Beneficiaries: 5,358 (50% of the  payment of an indemnity of at least 2/3 of the 
population in Italy, identified as the  compensation received in the previous period.
reference pool).
FAMILY
HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Eni nursery schools for children up to 6 years, 
Company cafeteria services based on a  with the opening of the nursery school in Rome 
quality system to guarantee food safety and  and expansion of the San Donato Milanese 
promote healthy nutrition.  facility.
School / professional orientation courses to 
support boys and girls in selecting their post-
PREVENTION CAMPAIGNS 
diploma path and in preparing for entrance tests.
Initiatives directed at promoting a culture 
“Fragibilità”: service for caregivers to provide 
of prevention with check-ups in excellent 
support in the management of non self-
facilities and focused specialist visits (early 
sufficient family members. Also available are 
diagnosis plan).
services for specific learning disabilities.
Over 4,000 participants
Over 3,000 participants in the programs, from 
nursery school to initiatives for children and 
caregivers
Corporate Volunteering 
In 2019 Eni began a corporate volunteering project with Fondazione Banco Alimentare. Employees who  In 2020, the 
signed up to the initiative were followed internally by a multi-disciplinary working group. They got the  corporate 
chance to volunteer for a day at the Fondazione Banco Alimentare’s warehouses, near their workplaces  volunteering project 
in different cities in Italy. In this project, Eni’s goal is to encourage active and voluntary participation  is set to continue, 
in the life of local communities by its employees, during working hours. This project is right in line with  also with other 
Eni’s way of doing business, as defined in its new mission, which is concerned with respect for people  various potential 
and creating shared value. The corporate volunteering project is set to go on in 2020, also with other  forms of outreach 
various potential forms of outreach volunteering. Through this kind of volunteering, Eni aims to encour- volunteering
age and support active and voluntary participation in the life of local communities by its employees, 
even during working hours, working with many local non-profit organisations to meet the needs of dif-
ferent local areas.