ENI FOR 2019 31
People’s health
Eni believes that health protection is essential and promotes the physical, psychological and social  205 
€ MLN
well-being of its own people, of the families and of the communities of the Countries in which it op-
erates. The extreme variability of the business contexts in which Eni operates, from the geographic,  Health investments 
expected by 2023
climatic, epidemiologic, social, political and regulatory viewpoint, requires constantly revising health 
risk matrices and makes it particularly challenging to assure health in each phase of the life cycle of 
the business projects. To rise to this challenge, Eni developed a specific operating platform, ensuring 
services through workplace medicine, industrial hygiene, traveller medicine, health care assistance 
and medical emergency activities, and through initiatives promoting health for its own people and 
for communities. 
Main objectives and initiatives in 2019
HEALTH PROMOTION WORK-RELATED RISKS
Identification and implementation of  There is an ongoing process to identify, 
initiatives promoting health for the  monitor and control workplace risks, including 
prevention of illnesses involving information,  not specifically regulated ones, such as 
communication, awareness, prophylaxis  travellers’ medicine, in connection with the 
through vaccination, screening of at-risk  industrial and health surveillance process.
groups and prevention of complications of 
diagnosed diseases.
RESPONSE TO MEDICAL EMERGENCIES
Guaranteed access to services provided for 
PROCESS DIGITALIZATION health emergencies. In 2019, the application 
Feasibility studies, functional design and  of the criteria for responding to health 
launch of the development of management  emergencies consistently with corporate 
applications within the project for the  policies was verified.
digitalization of processes and of health 
services. ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE 
In every operating context, assure the 
COMMUNITY HEALTH application of occupational medicine 
Promoting the health of partner Countries’  principles, and access to primary health care. 
populations as a prerequisite for socio- In 2019, for all business units, stock-taking 
economic development, through the  continued for in-sourced and outsourced 
implementation of specific programs health care facilities within the dedicated 
(see p. 68). management application.
ENI IN THE FIGHT AGAINST THE CORONAVIRUS
Eni, in view of the coronavirus health emergency that hit Italy and the rest of the world in early 2020,  Eni has allocated 
has carried out a series of medical and social initiatives, thanks also to the experiences in health care  €35 million for 
projects accumulated throughout the world, with an expenditure of €35 million including internation- the coronavirus 
al interventions with a focus mainly on Africa. Eni has supported several Italian hospitals dedicated  fight
to caring for coronavirus patients: Fondazione Policlinico Universitario Agostino Gemelli IRCCS for con-
struction of the COVID 2 Hospital in Rome, with 130 beds of which 50 in ICU, setting up a dedicated ER, 
and for the supply of advanced diagnostic technologies; Ospedale IRCCS Luigi Sacco in Milan for the 
construction of a new ER dedicated to infectious diseases; IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo of Pavia for 
the construction of a unit with high isolation level in the infections diseases ward; IRCCS Policlinico 
of San Donato with medical equipment; ASST Bergamo Est and Ospedale Giovanni XXIII with medical 
equipment (pulmonary ventilators) and PPE. Other hospitals were also supported in the italian regions 
of Veneto, Emilia Romagna, Marche, Basilicata, Puglia, Sardinia and Sicily with the supply of medical 
equipment to strengthen intensive care capacity. Lastly, the company made available its super-com-    FOR FURTHER INFORMATION:
puting infrastructure (HPC5, see p. 19) for coronavirus research, along with its molecular modelling  for all the initiatives launched 
knowledge, offering the contribution of high-level instruments and resources in the fight against the  by Eni for the health emergency, 
global emergency. see eni.com