34 CARBON NEUTRALITY IN THE LONG TERM    OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE MODEL    ALLIANCES FOR THE PROMOTION OF LOCAL DEVELOPMENT
Asset integrity
Asset integrity  The asset integrity system ensures that the asset is operated effectively and efficiently to safeguard 
assures the  people, the environment and operational continuity. The Asset Integrity Management System develops 
safeguard of  throughout the lifetime of the asset, from the initial design stage (Design Integrity), to procurement, 
people, of the  construction, installation and testing (Technical Integrity) through to operational and decommission-
environment ing (Operating Integrity). In 2019, Eni launched initiatives to further promote the Asset Integrity culture 
and of operational  with a cross-sector, widespread approach. In this regard, in January the Asset Integrity Day was held, 
continuity launching the training program entitled “The Culture of Asset Integrity” that reaches the entire Eni pop-
ulation involved in this set of topics. Furthermore, the involved Technical Units assured oversight of 
all Asset Integrity aspects through the entire value chain, also through the development of research 
projects aimed at the introduction of new technologies.
ASSET INTEGRITY
DESIGN INTEGRITY TECHNICAL INTEGRITY OPERATING INTEGRITY
MONITORING THE INTEGRITY OF OUR PIPELINES: E-SPLORA 
Periodic verification of the internal integrity of the pipelines and their cleanliness are essential activi-
ties to ensure the safety and reliability of new or mature assets over time. However, use of inspection 
or cleaning instruments (known as PIGS) at times involves operational risks because there could be 
presence of major internal deposits. To ensure and optimise these maintenance activities, Eni has 
developed the e-splora set of technologies that, through the use of acoustic techniques and of min-
iaturised sensors, is able to detect the presence of anomalies inside the pipelines with minimal risk. 
The system, applicable to most commonly used PIGS, has now become a standard: in 2019 alone, 
over 600 kilometers of pipelines were inspected, both onshore and offshore in Italy (Val D’Agri, Sicily 
and Abruzzo), Congo, Mexico and Nigeria. By 2020, a new version will be available that will allow to 
New sensor with GPS and  verify the integrity of pipelines that currently could not be inspected, with the addition of new fea-
GSM features developed by 
tures such as GPS/GSM position reporting in case of any trespassing, and there will be a new tool 
Eni within the set of e-splora 
technologies that will allow to detect in closer detail any deformation inside the lines (deposits, cavings).
Process safety
Eni has developed and implemented a Process Safety Management System, monitored through 
dedicated audits, to prevent and control uncontrolled releases of hazardous substances that may 
evolve into significant incidents, thus safeguarding people’s safety, the environment and assets. 
Monitoring these releases (Process Safety Events Tier 1 and Tier 2) in the past few years, shows a 
decreasing, constantly improving trend.
In 2019, Eni participated in an EPSC (European Process Safety Center) working group through an 
internal technical roundtable which, led to the definition of the fundamental rules for Eni’s Process 
Safety, the Process Safety Fundamentals (PSF), whose main objectives are:
• reduce over time the releases (containment losses) from process equipment;
• provide front-line personnel operating the plant with practical, easy to implement rules;
• incentivise a positive culture of attention to Process Safety and Asset Integrity matters;
• raise the operating personnel’s awareness and competence on these matters.
The stage of disseminating the PSF at the first three pilot sites has started and in 2020 the dissemi-
nation campaign will be extended to all Eni sites in Italy and abroad.