ENI FOR 2019 35
NUMBER OF PROCESS SAFETY EVENTS
2019 The trend of the number of process safety 
12 53 events is constantly improving both for tier 1 
and tier 2. Tiers 1 and 2 indicate the severity of 
2018
the consequences (from the most to the least 
27 48 severe) in terms of quantities of hazardous 
2017 substances released and damages caused.
23 67
TIER 1 TIER 2
Emergency preparedness and response
Emergency reaction procedures are constantly tested in exercises, essential for preparedness in cases  4,500
over 
of emergency, testing the ability to respond in terms of plans, resources, means and materials and 
identifying appropriate corrective actions. The main centrally coordinated drills were carried out in  drills managed
in 2019
the Livorno Refinery, the Versalis Porto Torres Plant and in the foreign affiliate Eni Congo. It was also 
strengthened the analysis of the reaction to real emergencies and pre-alarm events (events not gen-
erating emergencies but observable externally) and also to events deriving from natural causes. In 
this regard, the Natural Risk culture was strengthened, holding a themed workshop on meteo-hydro 
alerting.
National drills 
for volcanic risk 
“ExeFlegrei19”
CAMPI FLEGREI NATIONAL DRILL
In 2019, collaboration continued with the Italian Civil Protection Department, through which Eni intends  In 2019, collaboration 
to further increase awareness of the natural hazards to which its people and assets are exposed, and  between Eni and 
to refine its own preparedness and reaction to emergencies triggered by natural phenomena. In October  the Civil Protection 
2019, with a directive of the President of the Council of Ministers, the “National civil protection week”  Department 
was established to spread civil protection awareness and culture throughout Italy and to promote citi- continued
zens’ adoption of aware behaviours and self-protection measures. On this occasion, “ExeFlegrei19”, the 
national exercise for volcanic risk, was carried out to test civil protection planning activities for volcanic 
risk; to do this, the Civil Protection Department and the Campania Region, involved the municipalities 
of the Phlegraean Fields red zone, the regional sectors (health care, mobility and transports) and the 
Organizations and Institutions involved in national Planning. Eni actively participated in all phases of 
the test, with resources, means and equipment actually deployed in the field, since it has a strong 
presence with its activities in the Neapolitan area, both Phlegraean and Vesuvian.
1111..55  RReidduurcree  gthlie e affdevtteir asvev eeffrseic ptsro ovfo ncaattui draall ldei scaaslatemrsità