36 CARBON NEUTRALITY IN THE LONG TERM    OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE MODEL    ALLIANCES FOR THE PROMOTION OF LOCAL DEVELOPMENT
Environment
WHY IS IT IMPORTANT TO ENI?
Environmental protection, based on prevention, protection, information and participation criteria, is an essential 
component of Eni’s modus operandi, in particular the efficient use of natural resources, oil spill reduction, waste 
management and the management of activities in consistent interaction with biodiversity and with ecosystem ser-
vices. In strategic terms, there is an ever more active integration between the opportunities provided by remediation 
activities and those deriving from the execution of conversion and requalification projects. Moreover, Eni is engaged 
in stimulating environmental conscience throughout the supply chain, promoting decisions to reduce the environ-
mental impact of its own activities also in the phases of procurement of goods and services of the entire business.
Policies and other regulatory tools
Policies: “Sustainability”, “Integrity in our operations”; “Eni biodiversity and ecosystem services policy”; “Eni’s commitment not to conduct oil 
and gas exploration and development activities within the boundaries of Natural Sites included in the UNESCO World Heritage List”; “Eni’s posi-
tioning with regards to Green Sourcing”
Management tools
Integrated health, safety and environment management system: adopted in all plants and production units and certified in accordance 
with ISO 14001:2015 for environmental management
Progress in 2019 vs. 2018 Objectives
• Water: 10% decrease in total water withdrawals vs. 2018   • Reinjected production water: the achievement of 71% 
(+10% freshwater withdrawals) reinjection is forecast by 2023
• Reinjected production water: 58% vs. 60% 2018 • Achievement of the share of 5.4 million m3 by 2020 of 
• +7.5% of groundwater treated at TAF plants and used in the  groundwater treated at TAF plants and used in the production 
production cycle or reinjected vs. 2018 (5.1 million m3 in 2019) cycle or reinjected
• Operational oil spills: -61% of barrels spilled vs. 2018  • Oil Spill: extension of the e-vpms system to detect activities 
• Waste: 15% decrease in waste produced vs. 2018 near pipelines and TPI11 “pilot” testing
• Biodiversity: formalised commitment not to carry out  • Waste: increase in the portion of waste to be recovered
exploration and development activities in UNESCO’s   • Biodiversity: extension of biodiversity risk mapping to R&M 
World Heritage Natural Sites pipelines
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION:
Eni for 2019 - Sustainability performance (pp. 19-23); eni.com website; CDP Water Security Questionnaire 2019; Eni biodiversity and 
ecosystem services policy; Eni’s commitment not to conduct oil and gas exploration and development activities within the boundaries 
of Natural Sites included in the UNESCO World Heritage List 
Efficient use of water
USE OF FRESH WATER  Eni promotes the efficient management of water with actions to mitigate water risk, especially in areas 
BY SECTOR
subject to water stress where, in 2019, initiatives continued to reduce freshwater withdrawals, along with 
76 10 water access projects in the upstream sector. In water stress areas, Eni carries out yearly mapping and 
% %
monitoring of the water risk and drought scenarios to define long-term actions also directed at preventing 
Refinery and  Electricity 
and mitigating the effects of climate change12. 
chemicals generation
In 2019, efforts continued to be made on reusing contaminated and treated groundwater for civil or indus-
8 6 trial purposes and to provide access to drinking water for local communities, where in particular in Nigeria, 
% %
an agreement was reached with the FAO for the construction of drinking water wells (for more information, 
Exploration   Other activities 
& Production and civil uses please refer to pp. 57 and 60). Moreover, Eni requests information about water management process in 
the process for qualifying new suppliers.
11) e-vpms: Eni Vibroacustic Pipeline Monitoring System; TPI: Third Party Intrusion.
12) The analysis is carried out using Aqueduct, a tool developed by the World Resources Institute and recognised internationally as a reference for the identification of water stress conditions. 