ENI FOR 2019 37
WATER WITHDRAWALS
(% by source)
91% 6% 8
Only a small share of the water extracted by  %
Eni originates from freshwater sources (8%) 
Share of Eni’s water 
and 76% of this is associated with refinery 
withdrawals originating 
and chemical activities, 10% to electricity 
from freshwater
generation and only 8% to hydrocarbon 
2% exploration and production activities (other 
activities and civil uses 6%). Analysis of the  2
1% stress level of hydrographic basins and  < %
further studies carried out locally shows 
Share of Eni’s water 
SEAWATER FRESHWATER - NOT FROM AREAS UNDER WATER STRESS that freshwater withdrawal from areas under  withdrawals in water 
stress accounts for less than 2% of Eni’s total 
FRESHWATER - FROM AREAS UNDER WATER STRESS stress areas
water withdrawals.
UNDERGROUND OR SURFACE BRACKISH WATER
In April 2019 Eni, first in the Oil & Gas sector, chose to participate in the CEO Water Mandate, a special initi-
ative of the United Nations, whereby it undertakes to improve water resource management in all aspects, 
both operational, and in the use of innovative technologies, in the integration with local communities and 
in transparency. In line with the objectives of the CEO Water Mandate, studies are ongoing and projects 
for integrated water management at the local level will be launched. In terms of transparency, in 2019 Eni 
publicly responded to the CDP Water Security questionnaire, achieving an A- score and being recognised 
as a leader in water management. This result is above the industry average score of B.
TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWALS
(mln m3)
10
16 19 In 2019, sea water withdrawals were  %
18 reduced by 12% thanks to the reduction at 
119 117 the Gela refinery and at the petrochemical  Reduction of total 
128 water withdrawals
plants of Priolo, Brindisi and Porto 
Marghera, and to the cessation of the 
activities of the LNG Shipping fleet.  89
Freshwater withdrawals increased by 10%,  %
1,650 1,640 1,451 because of the set-up the Mantova 
BRACKISH WATER Freshwater 
petrochemical plant had to keep during the 
reutilisation
FRESHWATER outage for the maintenance of the cooling 
SEAWATER towers and the tests on the fire-fighting 
systems of the Sannazzaro refinery.
2017 2018 2019
PORTO TORRES AND WATER VALORISATION
Eni’s strategy for the recovery and valorization of natural resources is also implemented through  In 2019, 5.1 million 
efficient water management. The environmental company Eni Rewind is active in water treatment  m3 of treated waters 
through 43 plants in Italy, with a total capacity of 31 million m3/year, promoting water reutilization  have been destined 
for industrial purposes. In 2019, 5.1 million m3 of treated waters have been destined mainly to reuse.  mainly to reuse
The water treatment plants are aligned to the best available technologies and are subject to strict 
monitoring plans that guarantee full compliance with the quality of water discharges and emissions 
in the atmosphere, widely within the authorization limits required by law. For example at the Porto 
Torres site, a 10 km barrier was built to reclaim the groundwater, with 103 wells to extract the water 
that is then treated in 5 plants with a total capacity of 340 m3/hour (2.5 mln m3/year). A portion of it, 
i.e. 750,000 m3 in 2019, is subsequently sent to reverse osmosis for the production of demineralised 
water and then reused in Versalis plants, thus valorising the resource and reducing its extraction in 
nature. The e-hyrec technology, patented by Eni Rewind, is also applied in Porto Torres. The auto-
matic device, located inside the wells, allows selective separation of the aqueous water from the oily 
water, recovering only the hydrocarbon portion without extracting water – while traditional systems 
withdraw a preponderant part of water (approximately 70-80%) – with the consequent improvement 
in terms of effectiveness and efficiency of the groundwater reclaiming operation.
   FOR FURTHER INFORMATION:
6.3 Improve water quality, wastewater treatment and safe reuse
see eni.com