ENI FOR 2019 39
Circular economy and waste
The path to transition towards a circular economy is a response to current environmental challenges, replac- In 2019, 4 circularity 
ing the classic linear economy model with a regenerative approach based on synergy and industrial symbio- analyses were carried 
sis and associated with a version, through ecodesign, of the production processes and of asset management.  out at multi-company 
This process unfolds by reducing the extraction of natural resources in favour of materials from renewable  Eni sites
sources (or originating from the scraps from production processes), reducing and give value to scrap (waste, 
emissions, discharges) through recycling or recovery actions, and extending the useful life of products and 
assets with reuse or reconversion actions. In 2019, Eni designated certification third party Certiquality, which 
took advantage of cooperation with Scuola Superiore Sant’Anna di Pisa, for the development and validation of 
a quali-quantitative assessment model of the circularity of the operational site. Moreover, since 2017 Eni has 
been carrying out site-specific circularity analyses to map circularity elements already present and identify 
possible improvement actions, and 4 of them were carried out in 2019 at company sites.
Virtuous actions identified through circularity analyses
a) TAF: groundwater 
BRINDISI MULTI-COMPANY SITE BOLGIANO OFFICES treatment
Design work is ongoing on a floating  Energy saving technologies such as Smart 
photovoltaic power station; in addition,  Windows and Organic Solar Panels are used at 
water from TAF(a) is expected to be used  these offices.
at the new membrane system for the 
production of demineralised water, which 
TARANTO REFINERY
will allow an additional reduction of the 
Opportunity to optimize the Water Reuse 
seawater used so far.
plant to further reduce the extraction of well 
water and the sea discharge of process water 
and to send the sludge separated with waste 
RHO STORAGE FACILITY
water treatment to be recovered rather than 
Possibility of collecting rain water for 
disposed of.
reutilization in the fire-fighting line, thus 
replacing ground water extracted from a well. 
New life to organic waste. 
The first Waste to Fuel pilot 
plant in Gela
WASTE-TO-FUEL: NEW LIFE FOR WASTE
Eni developed the Waste to Fuel (W2F) proprietary technology for the transformation of the OFMSW (Or- The Waste to Fuel 
ganic Fraction of Municipal Solid Waste) into bio-oil (up to 16% of the incoming charge) with recovery of  technology meets the 
the water contained in the wet waste (between 60 and 80%). Bio-oil can be destined to sea transporta- requirements of circular 
tion, given the low sulphur content, or it can contribute to produce advanced biofuels and the recovered  economy, because it 
water can be destined to industrial uses. Eni Rewind is active in the development of plants, starting  reduces the use of raw 
from the pilot plant operating in the area of the Gela Refinery which, in 2019, provide the necessary  materials in energy 
elements to apply the technology on an industrial scale. As provided in the MoU signed by Eni and Cas- generation and reuses 
sa Depositi e Prestiti (CDP) on March 12, 2019, Eni Rewind in a joint venture with CDP will develop and  urban society’s waste
operate the industrial plants in Italy. The first project is in Porto Marghera in collaboration with Veritas, 
multiutility in Venice, as per the Memorandum of Understanding (March 2019). The plant, to be built in a 
reclaimed area, will have a treatment capacity of up to 150 thousand tonnes per year.    FOR FURTHER INFORMATION:
on innovative technology at the 
service of circular economy see 
12.4 Responsible management of chemical sand waste
eni.com