ENI FOR 2019 41
Aerial view of the 
Mangrove forest 
in the Niger Delta
ECOLOGICAL MANGROVE FORESTS RESTORATION IN THE NIGER RIVER DELTA
Context
The Niger Delta, in the south of Nigeria, is the largest river delta in Africa and the third in the world and sus- Eni’s commitment 
tains artisanal fishery activities, a central source of livelihoods for the local communities. The Niger Delta  to the conservation 
mangroves have been affected over time by anthropogenic pressures and oil pollution mainly caused by  of biodiversity
sabotage and oil theft, making them unusable for community subsistence activities.
Project
In 2017 Eni decided to voluntarily invest in the restoration of the Niger Delta mangroves, identifying a 
30 hectares area within the Akaguama forest (Nembe Local Government Area, Bayelsa State) where 
in 2013 and in 2014 some sabotage activities caused oil spill events. The area was selected for a pilot 
study preparatory to a mangrove restoration program that could also offer an economic opportunity 
for the local communities, through their involvement in restoration activities, in order to assure the 
long-term sustainability of the program. At the same time, the engagement of community members 
in the execution of the program, especially the youth, intends to inhibit the participation in oil theft 
activities.
Results
In 2019 following stages were concluded:
• Site assessment: more than 15 soil samples showed that the current residual levels of contamina-
tion are within the limits of the law thanks to the clean-up interventions carried out promptly in re-
sponse to spills;
• Trials for the planting procedures with 90 seedlings in three different locations: 100% of survivorship 
and high growth rates.
These results confirmed the feasibility of the program itself and ensuring implementation without carrying 
out a preliminary soil reclamation.
These tests are the basis for the large-scale recovery program that will be launched in 2021. During these 
stages, the Okoroma clan community was engaged in the field work and a social context evaluation is 
ongoing to define an engagement plan with it since the early stages of the restoration program. The next 
phase of the project, planned for 2020, envisages the construction of a nursery facility, the seedlings pro-
duction and their transplanting on a large-scale starting from 2021.
   FOR FURTHER INFORMATION:
15.5 Protect biodiversity and natural habitats
see eni.com