46 CARBON NEUTRALITY IN THE LONG TERM    OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE MODEL    ALLIANCES FOR THE PROMOTION OF LOCAL DEVELOPMENT
Human rights in the supply chain: management of suppliers  
and business partners 
6,000 Eni, aware of the significant role of its supply chain in the fulfillment of its social responsibilities 
~ commitments, has implemented a management model aimed at promoting its own values with sup-
Suppliers subject to  pliers and to involve them in the risk prevention process. This model ensures that Eni monitors its 
screenings and assessment 
suppliers constantly, and it may even suspend contracts if suppliers do not meet the minimum 
on sustainability issues in 2019
acceptability standards set by Eni. In 2019, approximately 6,000 suppliers were subjected to screen-
ing and assessment on sustainability issues: in 15% of the cases, potential critical issues/areas of 
improvement have been identified, but in 89% of them they did not compromise the possibility of 
working with them.
SUPPLIERS SELECTION AND MANAGEMENT PROCESS
STATEMENT DUE DILIGENCE QUALIFICATION CONTRACTUAL  FEEDBACK
OF COMMITMENT CLAUSES
Suppliers’ statement  Analyse ethical-social  Assess technical  Sign contractual  Monitor suppliers’ 
of commitment to  integrity and  capability, fulfilment of  clauses relating to  performance and their 
comply with Eni  counterparty risk  HSEQ requirements,  social responsibility  maintained eligibility 
principles. (reliability in terms of  suppliers’ sustainability  aspects and social 
operations, business,  and organisational  characteristics 
economic-financial,  aspects, defining action  necessary to collaborate 
legal and compliance of  plans oriented to remedy  with Eni.
potential and actual  any gaps and to 
suppliers). The analysis  continuous improvement.
includes also aspects 
on human rights. 
SUPPLIERS ARE REQUIRED TO FORMALLY COMMIT TO COMPLY WITH THE FOLLOWING PRINCIPLES:
COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS; PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS; ANTI-CORRUPTION; HEALTH AND SAFETY; ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION; BUSINESS ETHICS.
Eni is also carrying out numerous engagement initiatives with suppliers, for example: 
• Local meetings for local companies, organised in collaboration with trade associations and/or lo-
cal authorities, during which Eni’s sustainability values and principles are illustrated;
• Individual meetings with selected suppliers within the scope of assessments on human rights, 
to create awareness on the promotion and respect for human rights; in 2019, 9 suppliers were 
involved, of which 3 from Vietnam, 1 from Ecuador, 1 from Mexico and 4 from Tunisia;
• Annual events with the participation and recognition of suppliers with the best safety perfor-
mance who also distinguished themselves by their coimmitment (Safety & Environment Day). 
Eni, moreover, is finalising and subsequently diffusing a code of conduct for suppliers, which con-
firms the importance of respect for the cardinal principles of sustainability in the supply chain. 
Lastly, more generally referring to Eni’s business partners, starting from 2018 specific human rights 
clauses were introduced in the agreements stipulated with the Countries and with the other compa-
nies in activities managed through Joint Ventures, to represent and bind the parties to behave in line 
with the main international standards and to exercise an appropriate form of leverage on them. Every 
business partner is also subjected to a preventive screening to identify the presence of any criti-
cal issues referred to respect for human rights and to provide the appropriate measures to manage 
them. In this area, over 70 new business partners were screened in 2019.
Additional actions to combat the forms of modern slavery and human trafficking and to prevent the 
exploitation of minerals associated with human rights violations in the supply chain are further dis-
cussed in the Slavery and human trafficking statement and in the Position on “Conflict minerals”14, 
both available on the eni.com website.
14) In compliance with US SEC regulations.