4
Eni in the World
EUROPE  ASIA AND OCEANIA  AFRICA 
7
Austria Australia Algeria
Belgium Bahrain Angola
18 Cyprus China Congo
Czech Republic India Egypt
Denmark Indonesia Gabon
France Iraq Ghana
Germany  Japan Ivory Coast
13
7 Greece Kazakhstan Kenya
Greenland Lebanon Libya
Hungary Myanmar Morocco
15 Ireland Oman Mozambique
4 Italy Pakistan Nigeria
5
Luxembourg Russia South Africa
Montenegro Saudi Arabia Tunisia
10
6 Norway Singapore
1
Poland South Korea
Romania Taiwan AMERICAS 
Slovakia the United Arab Emirates
3 14 Slovenia Timor Leste Argentina
Spain Turkmenistan Canada
66 
Countries Sweden Vietnam Ecuador
Where we operate Switzerland Mexico
the Netherlands the United States
31,321
the United Kingdom Venezuela
Turkey
People
E&P G&P R&M&C
1.87  A strong love for Italy and great respect for different cultures, 67 years ago, led Enrico Mattei to 
MLN BOE/DAY
achieve a dream enclosed in a small word with a great future: Eni. Italy as a starting Country for a 
New record hydrocarbon  trip towards distant shores. A bold path taken by inventing a new national energy policy that would 
production
entail the broadest possible participation by the host Nation in the technical and administrative 
7.3  management of the activities launched in various Countries. Thus was launched Eni’s “Dual Flag” 
BLN BOE
strategy, which to this day is a distinctive feature of the model of cooperation in the 66 Countries 
Proven reserves 
where Eni is active. This approach translates into constant interactions with local institutions and 
of hydrocarbons
stakeholders, to identify the initiatives necessary to meet the needs of the communities, whose 
development strategies are strengthened with the launch of partnerships also with international 
bodies that, sharing not only economic resources, but also skills, know-how and experience, contrib-
ute to improving quality of life and achievement of the SDGs. All this is ensured by the skills, energy 
and passion that Eni’s 31,321 people put in everything they do. Our actions stem from curiosity, 
concreteness and the commitment for technological innovation and progress, to face to the most 
important challenge of the industry: making energy resources accessible efficiently and sustainably 
for everyone, combating climate change. The key to take on this challenge is enclosed in one word: 
transformation. Eni is transforming its own business, not only to keep up with the constantly evolv-
ing global scenario, but to anticipate its requirements. The new Eni will supply highly decarbonised 
energy products and will be ever more enhanced by businesses such as renewable energies and 
circular economy, thus actively contributing to the energy transition process. Innovation anchored 
to tradition: a forward-looking company that stays faithful to its history and to its non-negotiable 
values, such as integrity, respect for people and environmental protection.