ENI FOR 2019 53
Sustainability throughout all business phases
From the time licenses are acquired, through to the exploration and the development of business projects, from  The local approach 
production to decommissioning, instruments and methodologies have been adopted that are consistent with  responds to 
the main international standards, ensuring a more efficient and systematic approach to decision-making, in  the needs of 
order to contribute to the development of the host Countries. The analysis of the socio-economic context, that  communities in line 
accompanies in an ever deeper manner the business design stages, allows Eni to understand local needs and  with the National 
hence to define the priority sectors of intervention. These priorities translate into objectives in the four-year 
Development Plans 
strategic Plan, aimed at directly or indirectly contributing to the achievement of the SDGs. This is obtained 
and the United 
through analytical and managerial instruments that cover the entire cycle of the business and allow: 
Nations 2030 Agenda
1. the knowledge of the Country context from the socio-economic, environmental and cultural viewpoint, with 
the use of internationally recognised tools like the Global Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI);
2. the relationship with local stakeholders directly and/or indirectly involved to understand their requests, and 
any grievances, to strengthen mutual trust (see p. 63); 
3. the assessment and mitigation of the potential impacts of the activities to identify critical issues, opportu-
nities, risks from the socio-economic and environmental standpoint, including respect for and promotion of 
human rights;
4. the definition and implementation of Local Development Programmes consistent with the Country Develop-
ment Plans, the 2030 Agenda and the Nationally Determined Contributions (see pp. 61-69); 
5. the assessment and measurment of local development generated (“learn and adapt”) through the use of 
instruments and methodologies recognised internationally and adopted by Eni, such as the logical frame-
work approach and management of the project cycle, as well as tools developed by Eni in collaboration with 
academic institutions such as the Eni Impact Tool and the Eni Local Content Evaluation Model (see pp. 70-73). 
This approach is based on collaborations with institutions, cooperation agencies and local stakeholders to iden-
tify the interventions necessary to meet communities’ needs in line with the National Development Plans and 
the 2030 Agenda of the United Nations.
Knowledge of socio-economic, environmental and cultural aspects of host Countries 1
Stakeholders relations and mapping of requests and grievances 2
Assessment of impacts to identify local development opportunities and risks 3
L
E
ARN AND ADAPT Definition of local development programmes 4
Assessment and measurement of local development generated 5
PRE-ACQUISITION ACQUISITION EXPLORATION DEVELOPMENT PRODUCTION DECOMMISSIONING
MULTIDIMENSIONAL POVERTY INDEX (MPI)
The Global MPI is an internationally recognized measure of acute multidimensional poverty, available for over  The Global 
100 Countries. The Global MPI examines the deprivation conditions of a person through 10 indicators across  Multidimensional 
three dimensions: education, health and living standards. The index allows to compare the incidence and inten- Poverty Index was 
sity of poverty between Countries but also within individual States, as disaggregated data are also available at  developed in 2010 
the local level, as well as for urban and rural areas. The Global MPI, therefore, is a significant reference also to  by the Oxford 
measure progress relative to the 1st goal of the 2030 Agenda. According to the “Global Multidimensional Poverty  Poverty and Human 
Index 2019”, 23.1% of the population covered by the global MPI 2019 – 1.3 billion people – are multimensionally  Development 
poor. The Global MPI is becoming an increasingly authoritative international reference methodology. The global  Initiative at the 
MPI was included in the Human Development Report (HDR) in 2010 and has been published in the HDR and  University of Oxford 
by OPHI ever since. The Global Sustainable Development Report of the United Nations encourages governments  and by the Human 
to use this multidimensional index in the development, implementation and control stages of its own policies  Development 
against poverty and for social inclusion. Report Office of 
Use of the Multidimensional Poverty Index in Eni the United Nations 
Eni carries out poverty analyses both before starting its operations in a Country, and to improve its own under- Development 
standing of the socio-economic context of the Countries where it is present. The Global MPI is one of the instru- Programme (UNDP)
ments used by Eni to ensure that its action is as effective as possible and directed at the most vulnerable people.