54 CARBON NEUTRALITY IN THE LONG TERM    OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE MODEL    ALLIANCES FOR THE PROMOTION OF LOCAL DEVELOPMENT
Access to energy
“We are an energy  Ensuring unversal access to energy efficiently and sustainably is the main challenge of the energy 
company. sector and it is at the centre of the process of transition towards a low carbon future, as also confirmed 
We concretely support  in the corporate mission. In this context, aware that the fight against energy poverty is the first step to 
a just energy transition, meet the primary needs of education, health and economic diversification, Eni promotes the construc-
with the objective of  tion of infrastructure for the production and transport of gas and facilitates access to electricity, as 
preserving our planet integral parts of its business model.
and promoting 
an efficient and  Construction of infrastructure for the production and transport of gas
sustainable access  Eni invests in the construction of infrastructure for the production and transport of gas both for export, 
to energy for all” and for local consumption through energy generation, promoting on one hand the development of mar-
Beginning of Eni’s mission kets where it is present and on the other hand the attainment of new ones. In 2019, the Takoradi-Tema 
Interconnection Project continued in Ghana with the goal of increasing gas use also in the Eastern part 
of the Country by increasing the flow rate towards the Takoradi hub and the WAPCo16 facilities by approx-
imately 2.5 times; other initiatives were carried out in Indonesia, where the construction of a dedicated 
pipeline in East Borneo will allow to increase LPG production for the domestic market. Eni’s approach 
also allows to ensure energy independence in several Countries, for example in Egypt where, thanks to 
the discovery of the Zohr reservoir, whose production already fully remains in the Country, the founda-
tions for energy independence have been created and in Libya, where Eni continues to supply almost 
all of the gas needed to fuel its power stations. 
SALES OF GAS TO LOCAL MARKET IN 2019 (absolute value and %) BILLION Sm3/ YEAR
36.9 6.5 1.9 3.9 2.0 0.4 1.8 1.8 1.4 1.2 0.1 0.03 4.2 0.3 1.0 0.5 0.001
64  100%
BILLION Sm3
of gas sold to domestic 
markets in 17 Countries
53%
100
%
37%
of gas sold to the  28%
domestic markets of 
12 out of 17 Countries
1% 0.3%
0%
NOEgyptN OECDLibya NigeriaOECDVenezuela Ghana Tunisia Indonesia Pakistan Congo Algeria Kazakhstan Mexico Italy United States Australia United Kingdom Norway
Eni provides energy to the local markets, having supplied them in 2019 with over 73% of the total gas sold, for an 
amount of more than 64 billion Sm3. In particular, in 12 Countries Eni distributes 100% of the total gas sold.
Construction of thermal power stations
In Sub-Saharan Africa, Eni makes investments for the construction of thermal power stations thanks to 
the valorisation of the associated gas which was disposed of by flaring. The objective is to diversify the 
energy mix, made up of 50% biomass and coal, introducing a cleaner source like natural gas. In 2019, 
the activities to increase the electricity generating capacity of the CEC power station in Congo through 
the construction of the third turbine were completed, as well as the revamping of 4 power stations in 
Libya that generate 2GW of power, enough to ensure more stable access to electricity to approximately 
two million people (about 1/3 of the entire Libyan population), threatened by continuous black-outs 
caused by the conditions of neglect of the power stations.
16) In addition, in early 2020 the second phase of the project was launched, with the goal of doubling the flow rate towards Tema as well.