ENI FOR 2019 55
In Nigeria, the Okpai power station, with a primary installed capacity of 480 MW, in 2019 generated ap- The Okpai plant 
proximately 1,400 GWh contributing to about 10% to the total energy fed into the national transmission  was the first 
grid of the available capacity in the Country and supplying energy to approximately 10 million people. Two  combined cycle 
additional generation trains with gas turbine, one of which is available for operation and the other in an  plant built in Nigeria
advanced stage of completion, will further increase the available capacity of over 300 MW, thus placing 
Okpai in first place for capacity among power generation plants built by private operators in Nigeria. Also 
in Nigeria, since 2012, Eni through the Ob-Ob plant has supplied gas to third parties who, with a plant hav-
ing an installed capacity of 150 MW, generate electricity for approximately 1 million beneficiaries.
Off-grid energy access projects
With the Promoting Energy Efficiency and Clean Cooking project, Eni in Mozambique contributes to the 
replacement, among vulnerable families, of 10,000 traditional stoves with the improved ones provided 
in the Plan, reducing deforestation caused by cutting wood used for the production of charcoal for do-
mestic use. This project promotes a sustainable local production, creating jobs and new local entrepre-
neurship. Moreover, in 2020 Eni and the World Bank signed a memorandum of understanding in Ghana 
for the development of initiatives to promote the use of improved, more efficient wood-burning stoves, 
to reduce exposure to toxic wood fumes and prevent forest exploitation.
The CEC supplies electricity to 
the city of Pointe-Noire with 
the installation of over 6,500 
street lighting points. 
THE THIRD TURBINE FOR THE CENTRALE ÉLECTRIQUE DU CONGO (CEC)
Following the acquisition, in 2007, of the M’Boundi onshore reservoir in Congo, Eni has developed in  With the commissioning of a 
the Country an energy access model on a large scale. The “Projet intégré” (Integrated Project) was  third gas turbine in February 
launched with the construction of the Centrale Électrique du Djéno (CED) and the Centrale Électrique  2020, the CEC contributes 
du Congo (CEC) power stations, the requalification of the energy transport infrastructure and the  approximately to 60/70% 
expansion of the electricity distribution network to the city of Pointe-Noire. CEC and CED are fueled  of the total electricity 
with gas from the M’Boundi and Marine XII reservoirs, contributing to the reduction of emissions  generation in Congo
from gas flaring. The CEC plant, commenced in 2010, is part of Eni’s broader strategy to expand ac-
cess to energy in the Country and promote the development of the local energy resources. With the 
commissioning of a third gas turbine in February 2020 (providing additional capacity of 170 MW for 
a total of 484 MW), the CEC contributes approximately to 60/70% of the total electricity generation 
in the Country. In addition, the CEC supplies electricity to the city of Pointe-Noire also through the in-
stallation of over 6,500 street lighting points, benefiting approximately 350,000 people. The energy 
access program also allowed the success of the Hinda Project, supplying electricity to 33 community 
structures powered with solar panels (11 medical centres and 22 drinking water wells).
7.1 Universal access to modern energy 7.b Expand and upgrade energy services for developing     FOR FURTHER INFORMATION
Countries see eni.com