56 CARBON NEUTRALITY IN THE LONG TERM    OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE MODEL    ALLIANCES FOR THE PROMOTION OF LOCAL DEVELOPMENT
Partnerships for sustainable development
“We must work  Faced with increasingly complex and global events – poverty and inequality, health emergency, cli-
side by side with  mate and migration crisis, political instability – Eni has chosen to extend the range of the development 
the less developed  initiatives, beyond the boundary of its own operating areas through alliances with respecetd partners 
Countries, know  active locally and recognised internationally. The synergic action and the sharing of know-how that 
them, talk with the  derive from it are aimed at improving people’s living conditions in the Countries of presence in line with 
institutions, talk with  the 2030 Agenda of the United Nations, the Country plans and the NDCs. With major challenges, it is 
local communities,  absolutely essential to join forces and act together, valorizing shared factors with the different stake-
understand from them  holders engaged in the areas of interest: from the International Organizations to the private sector, from 
what the obstacles  civil society to cooperation agencies that know the local region, the fragility and the primary needs of 
to development are  the people who live in the areas where Eni is present. Hence, the value of the individual and hence the 
and help them remove  need to identify partners able to ensure a long-term perspective to the actions. The financial and eco-
them, not with a logic  nomic crisis of 2008 caused a severe reduction of public for development due to Governments’ national 
of pure assistance but  budget needs. Thus the invitation – stressed in the “Third international conference on development 
sharing resources and  funding” organised in Addis Abeba by the United Nations in July 2015 – to use new mechanisms and 
competencies”  forms of collaboration able to put together the public and the private sector. Enrico Mattei’s intuition 
and Eni’s “vocation” in accompanying the growth of peoples and communities, which translates in the 
C. Descalzi, Mediterranean. 
La sfida è lo sviluppo,  aforementioned Dual Flag approach, are once again present and find fertile ground in the role attribut-
Avvenire, January 5, 2020 ed with growing awareness by the international community to the private sector, as the recent health 
emergency demonstrates once again.
The value of working together
In this direction are moving, for example, Eni’s partnerships with International Agencies and Organisations 
like the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the 
United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) and with a view to a broader collaboration the 
patronage of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) to the Musée 
du Cercle Africain built in Pointe-Noire in Congo and Eni’s participation in the first Bienniale of Luanda, in 
Angola - Pan-African forum for the Culture of Peace. It is also the direction of the relationships and collab-
orations with Italian and European institutions, financial entities and development banks, cooperation en-
tities and agencies, faith based organisations, universities and research centres. These are broad collabo-
rations that cut across sectors, in terms of action (access to energy, economic diversification, education, 
access to water and sanitation, health), of geographic areas and Countries where Eni is present. Eni was 
among the players of the energy and investment funds that participated in the dialogues promoted in the 
Vatican in June 2018 and 2019 by the Notre Dame University and by the Dicastery for Promoting Integral 
Human Development, “The Energy Transition and Care for Our Common Home”.
The Promoting Energy Efficiency 
and Clean Cooking project promotes 
sustainable local production in the city of 
Pemba, in Mozambique, creating jobs and 
new local entrepreneurship. The improved 
stove made cooking faster and safer, 
while reducing negative consequences 
on health