ENI FOR 2019 57
UNIDO
On July 17, 2019, Eni and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) signed a joint 
declaration to contribute to the achievement of the SDGs. The first planned activities concern the improvement 
of youth employment and the value chain of the agri-food chain in Mozambique and research activities on 
renewable energy and energy efficiency in Congo.
FAO
Since 2018, Eni has been working with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations 
(FAO) to promote access to water in Nigeria through the construction of water wells powered by
photovoltaic systems, for domestic use and irrigation, in line with the SDGs.
UNDP
In 2018, Eni and the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) signed a Memorandum of Understanding 
aimed at promoting the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals, in particular to improve access to 
sustainable energy in Africa.
UNESCO
Collaboration for the opening of the Musée du Cercle Africain (2018), the first  Museum in Pointe-Noire in Congo, 
to promote and enhance African culture and art, with particular attention to the new generations.
Participation in the first Bienniale of Luanda, in Angola – Pan African Forum for the Culture of Peace (September 
18-22, 2019) – aimed at stimulating dialogue and the encounter between cultures and promoting a common 
path of peace, a fundamental condition for human and economic development of Countries.
WORLD BANK
Eni Ghana and the World Bank signed a Memorandum of Understanding, the result of a dialogue that began in 2019, 
for the development of initiatives to promote access to improved domestic wood fuel cook stoves, to reduce exposure 
to unhealthy wood-smoke and decreased pressure on the depletion of forest resources. Built on an innovative 
cooperation model between a multilateral organization and the private sector, the actions planned contribute to the 
Government of Ghana’s strategy for ensuring universal access to modern, clean and safe energy sources by 2030.
E4IMPACT
The Collaboration Agreement signed between Eni Kenya and E4Impact Foundation, launched during 2019, aims 
to develop a business incubator in Kenya (Nairobi). The initiative involves the Italian Agency for Development 
Cooperation (AICS) and the Catholic University of the Sacred Heart of Milan (UCSC) in promoting entrepreneurship  (cid:41)(cid:50)(cid:56)(cid:49)(cid:39)(cid:36)(cid:55)(cid:44)(cid:50)(cid:49)
(especially for women) and youth employment, stimulating the internationalization of new businesses.
DOM BOSCO
In 2019, Eni Mozambique and the Dom Bosco Institute of Maputo signed a collaboration agreement to 
implement a broad professional training plan at the industrial and commercial institute of Pemba. 
The four-year collaboration includes certified training of trainers and provision of scholarships for 
professional courses, degrees, masters and doctorates in technical-vocational disciplines.