ENI FOR 2019 63
Stakeholder engagement at local level 
Responsible business management must also meet the needs expressed by local communities,  GRIEVANCE 2019
MAIN ISSUES
contributing to their medium and long term well-being. Eni considers the relationship with inhab- (%)
itants of the host territories to be an important input. For this reason, Eni keeps track of all issues 
raised by stakeholders and analyses them in an integrated way for each territory, to identify the best 
actions to pursue sustainable development in synergy with local communities. In this perspective, 
14ACCESS TO ENERGY
managing grievances (the claims or complaints raised by an individual – or a group of individuals –  6 LAND MANAGEMENT
pertaining to real or perceived impacts caused by the operations of the company) is a fundamental  6 EDUCATION
element to attention. Eni defined its own Grievance Mechanism (GM) to receive, recognise, classify, 
investigate, respond and resolve claims and complaints in a timely, planned and respectful manner. 
16EMPLOYMENT
Eni’s GM, defined in 2014, is based on the international Guidelines on the matter, published by IPIECA, 
and it has been active in all affiliates since 2016. Grievances are monitored through a dedicated  10INFRASTRUCTURE
system called “Stakeholder Management System - SMS” (for more information, please see p. 17). A  8 COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT
claim mechanism at the operational level allows to respond rapidly and effectively to possible crit-
9 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT
ical situations, preventing their deterioration and the araisin of conflicts. In 2019, Eni received 253 
7 PARTNERSHIPS
claims from 8 affiliates/districts/plants, of which 44%, i.e. 112 cases, were resolved and closed. Most 
6 SOCIAL, ECONOMIC IMPACTS
grievances came from Sub-Saharan Africa (Congo, Ghana, Nigeria) and involved mainly: access to  3 ECONOMIC DIVERSIFICATION
energy, employment development, education, land management.
15OTHER
ENI’S GRIEVANCE MANAGEMENT IN GHANA
Listening to stakeholders and their needs is of fundamental importance to better contribute to cre-
ate shared value with the host population.
In Ghana, Eni has constant relations with 79 local stakeholders. A responsible grievance manage-
ment entails the need to introduce a new assessment approach and methods to accommodate 
different local contexts in which Eni operates, to ensure the best possible resolution of the critical 
issues raised. In May 2019, for example, one of the breeders who benefited from the “livelihood 
restoration programme initiative” complained that the breeding business did not allow to generate 
sufficient profits to purchase all of the animal feed and continue the activity and requested the 
company to supply additional feed. Eni sent experts to identify the reasons for the low yields of 
the breeder’s activity. The solution of problems with hygiene and sanitation and with transport-
ing products and feed allowed to successfully solve the problems of this micro enterprise: these 
methods were also shared among the local breeders’ association, to improve their knowledge of 
the best management practices.
10.3 Ensure equal opportunities and end discrimination