64 CARBON NEUTRALITY IN THE LONG TERM    OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE MODEL    ALLIANCES FOR THE PROMOTION OF LOCAL DEVELOPMENT
Human rights in relations with communities
From 2018 Eni has  Eni is engaged in preventing possible negative impacts on the human rights of individuals and host 
adopted a risk based  communities deriving from the implementation of industrial projects. For this purpose, in 2018 Eni 
model on human  adopted a risk-based model to classify the business projects of the upstream activities based on the 
rights to classify  potential risk to human rights. Based on this approach, the highest risk projects are specifically studied 
business projects by carrying out dedicated “Human Rights Impact Assessments” (HRIA), that entail, inter alia, a prelim-
inary analysis of the local context on human rights and a subsequent engagement with the main “right-
sholders”. A final report provides the recommendations for the implementation of measures to prevent 
potential impacts on human rights and to manage existing ones. In 2019, an HRIA study was performed 
in Mexico, in relation to to the development project launched in Area 1 of the offshore (shallow waters) 
of the Gulf of Mexico, for which Eni was supported by the Danish Institute for Human Rights. In 2019, 
in Mozambique and in Angola, two Action Plans were defined in relation to human rights assessments 
carried out in 2018, whose Reports were issued during the year, and two more “deep dives” were per-
formed on new areas (for further information see eni.com).
INTERVIEW WITH ARTURO GARRIDO MORA
From your perspective, which are the highlights of the relationship between the new players in 
the Oil & Gas industry and local communities?
Taking into account that the oil activity in the Gulf of Mexico area was the object of an energy reform, 
where a series of recommendations were made on how to carry out the extraction of oil and gas, 
which also indicated a series of considerations tending to avoid deterioration of the environment 
as well as to promote the protection of resources, the stimulation of economic activities and the 
addressing of social vulnerability in the area; I consider appropriate the set of activities that Eni de-
velops in the state of Tabasco, which include a series of projects and plans – such as the Action Plan 
Arturo Garrido Mora on Human Rights – in order to respond to the various aspects mentioned above.
Director of the Academic 
According to the Human Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA) performed by the Danish Institute for 
Division of Biological 
Sciences (DacBiol) of  Human Rights (DIHR), a great challenge for the local fishing communities is related to the possi-
UJAT - Universidad Juarez 
ble cumulative impacts from the activities of all the Oil & Gas companies in the area. From your 
Autonoma de Tabasco, 
in Mexico point of view, which would be the most appropriate way to manage these impacts?
The use of environmentally friendly technologies that reduce impacts; to identify and design strate-
gies for dealing with impacts on land and impacts on the marine zone and wetlands.
Eni Mexico is introducing a Human Rights Action Plan for its activities in Contract Area 1, based 
on the recommendations provided in the assessment performed by the DIHR. Which is your im-
pression of the activities concerning the relation with local fishing communities? Do you consider 
other important initiatives or steps that could help Eni México to guarantee respect for the human 
rights of communities in this specific context?
Eni México has shown a particular concern for the fishing communities, as well as for the productive 
activities, education, health and urban infrastructure of the community of Villa and Puerto Coronel 
Andres Sanchez Magallanes and of the other communities belonging to Area 1 Block, in the Munici-
pality of Cárdenas, Tabasco. For this, it has set a series of initiatives aimed at improving the quality of 
life of the region, in the different aspects mentioned. Regarding initiatives, diversification of produc-
tive activities and innovative projects are an important option in the region, addressing problems re-
lated to the deterioration of the coastal environment and social vulnerability are an important aspect 
to address in the area, the inclusion of gender and opportunities for young people is an important 
task that must be promoted in the impact area of the Eni project.