ENI FOR 2019 65
AN EXAMPLE OF ENI’S COOPERATION WITH NON-JUDICIAL MECHANISMS
The case
In December 2017, an association called Egbema Voice of Freedom (EVF), in the Aggah community,  The Aggah community is 
issued a complaint before the Italian National Contact Point (NCP) for the OECD Guidelines. “NCPs  located in the state of Rivers 
focus on problem solving - they offer good offices and facilitate access to consensual and non-ad- in Nigeria, in an area that is 
versarial procedures (ex. conciliation or mediation). Complaints handled by NCPs (known as specific  regularly subject to flooding, 
instances) are not legal cases and NCPs are not judicial bodies”. The application complained that  due to seasonal rains and 
Eni was not doing enough to mitigate the impact of its operations on the effects of the floods on the  flooding of the Niger River. 
community.  NAOC, an Eni subsidiary, 
manages the operations in 
The results this area on behalf of the 
During the procedure, Eni provided objective elements – also with the support of photo and video  Joint Venture with the state 
documentation – to demonstrate that NAOC operations and infrastructures have no aggravating im- company NNPC and Oando 
pact on the natural flooding of the area. The natural flooding affects a much wider area than the one  (NNPC 60%, NAOC 20% 
of the community of Aggah, and it is a typical phenomenon of the Niger Delta region. As it is also  and Oando 20%). 
reiterated in Eni’s Statement on Respect for Human Rights, Eni upholds the UN Guiding Principles on  Since the planning phase, 
Business and Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the Ten Principles  and in compliance with local 
of the Global Compact of United Nations. In particular, Eni is committed to cooperating in good faith  regulations, NAOC ensured 
with non-judicial bodies as well. Therefore, while always reaffirming its position, Eni has chosen to  that the plant, access routes 
comply with and participate in good faith in the procedure at the NCP and to actively contribute to  and pipes were all elevated 
its proper implementation. Eni actively participated in all the phases of the procedure, voluntarily  and equipped with adequate 
complying with the terms of the conciliation procedure which included a joint visit to the site in Nige- drainage systems to ensure 
ria. Finally, Eni shared and accepted the terms of the agreement proposed by the Conciliator at the  regular water flows, even 
end of the procedure, namely the commitment to verify the need for additional drainage systems, in  during the rainy season.
addition to the existing ones, under the road that connects the wells locations, and to proceed with 
their construction, which is aligned with the usual community relationships activities. 
Transparency and next steps
With a view to transparency, Eni has agreed to the NCP’s proposal to make the content of the agree-
ment available on its website. Eni’s commitment and participation in the conciliation procedure 
therefore contributed to the smooth functioning of the conciliation mechanism and the NCP con-
gratulated the parties for the successful conclusion of the procedure. Following the signing of the 
Terms of Settlement, NAOC and Egbema voice of Freedom (EVF) designated their respective contact 
persons who met several times in order to define the contents of the drainage interventions to be 
carried out in the community. Once the engineering design completed, NAOC activated the internal 
procurement procedures to assign the contract for the rebuilding of the culverts. The Italian NCP will     FOR FURTHER INFORMATION
be kept informed of the implementation of the agreement. see the NAOC website
The relations with indigenous populations
Considering the different Countries where Eni directly operates its industrial facilities, Eni has direct 
contacts with Indigenous Peoples (IP) and their representations only in Australia and Alaska (USA). 
In both cases, the relationships with IP are managed in compliance with the international and local 
rules that regulate their involvement and consultation. In the first case, Eni operates in the Northern 
Territory, near the Wadeye community, and regularly engages local administrative bodies (such as the 
Northern Land Council, NLC) which protect the rights of Aboriginal populations, developing participatory 
projects concerning local development and environmental conservation. In Alaska, Eni’s Oil & Gas op-
erations are concentrated in the northern end of the State (North Slope), where native peoples live on 
subsistence-based lifestyles (hunting and fishing); Eni’s key stakeholders include representatives of 
the villages located close to Eni’s operating activities, as well as cooperatives and corporations which 
supply goods and services to companies operating in the area, according to local regulations. Relations 
with Indigenous Peoples in both Countries are recorded in the Stakeholder Management System (SMS). 