ENI FOR 2019 67
Local development project in Italy 
Most of Eni’s local development initiatives in Italy derived, in 2019, from Memorandums of Under- 8.2
€  MLN
standing with national/local agencies. Regarding access to energy, the Municipality of Ravenna 
carried out energy requalification work on public buildings, while in Val d’Agri more than €1 million  Invested in 2019 
in Italy
was provided to the Municipalities of the valley to supply natural gas and perform energy efficien-
cy-boosting works. Several economic diversification projects were implemented, both to promote 
innovation and local capabilities (e.g. the CoLABoRA incubator in Ravenna) and to boost local tour-
ism. With Coldiretti Basilicata, the first implementing agreement in Italy was signed to promote the 
regional agri-food sector and in Sicily, an agreement was signed with the Sicilian Fondazione Banco 
Alimentare to reduce the social vulnerability of the Gela area, acting on the problem of access to food. 
In the field of education, the Eighth Agreement with the Municipality of Ravenna allowed to carry out 
educational activities on environmental and energy-related topics and to promote the activation of 
internships. In Basilicata, €750,000 were allocated to implement the activities of the local branch of 
Fondazione Eni Enrico Mattei. Regarding environmental protection, work was carried out for the pres-
ervation of the Ravenna coastline and coastal natural habitats, while in Basilicata the management 
of an environmental monitoring network and the implementation of the “Segni e Percorsi” (Signs and 
Routes) program were funded. 
Energy Valley is an integrated, 
cross-cutting project that 
intends to create a new 
production model in Val d’Agri
AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENTATION AND EDUCATION CENTRE PROJECT
The project consists of the construction of an “Agricultural Experimentation and Education Centre” that will  Realization of an 
become a hub to attract and develop talents, to promote economic activities and innovation, to stimulate  “Agricultural 
development in the agri-food sector. This Centre is meant to be a development lever for the Basilicata re- Experimentation and 
gion. The project is intended to be a crossroads between production system, education and research and  Education Centre” 
it aims to establish closer synergies among the different systems, promoting technological transfer and  in Basilicata, Italy to 
innovations (process, product, management, organisational, supply chain) effectively, rapidly and gener- promote economic activities 
ating a positive impact on business competitiveness. and innovation and to 
generate development in 
Contents of the project the agri-food sector
The project, carried out on the lands adjacent to the Cova on a surface area of approximately 25 hectares, 
comprises the following main activities: (i) agricultural experimentation, with technologically innovative 
and experimental processes on different crops; (ii) provision of technical assistance to the region’s agri-
food enterprises; (ii) administration of training and professionalising activities for farmers; (iv) informa-
tional events for the local public; (v) development of farming innovation projects, in partnership with the 
local players, using specific funds.
The project, fully funded by Eni with a commitment of approximately €3.5 million in the 2019-2023 time 
frame, is expected to generate a cumulative employment impact (direct and indirect) of over 100 peo-
ple and a cumulative economic impact of over €7 million on connected businesses. The CO absorption 
2
generated by the project is calculated to be approximately 50 tonnes per year.
2.4 Sustainable food production and resilient agricultural practices
4.4 Increase the number of people with relevant skill for financial success
8.2 Diversify, innovate and upgrade for economic productivity