ENI FOR 2019 71
These three dimensions are measured according to three different levels of analysis: “direct” effects 
generated by Eni’s activities, “indirect” effects generated by the first level of the supply chain, “induced” 
effects referred to the macroeconomic sectors of the Country involved in the project.
The ELCE model is characterised by high adaptability to different contexts, which ensure that “local” 
impact will be considered in the way that is closest to the economic reality of each Country. Some ex-
amples are the alternative methods used to identify “local” purchasing expenses, such as payments in 
the local currency, or the percentage of participation of local companies in consortiums.
Application of the ELCE Model to the Area 1 project in Mexico
The offshore project, situated in the Campeche bay, has a 25-year duration (2016-2040)  For the definition 
with production starting in 2019. of “local” in Mexico, 
the “Country of 
ECONOMIC IMPACT company registration” 
(mln $) criterion was used: 
a company is defined 
20,000
Major industries  “local” when it is 
activated locally  registered in Mexico 
15,000 by Eni on total  but it is not part of any 
contracts: multinational company 
Logistics (61%) or megasupplier
10,000 General Services (89%)
5,000
20.9
$   bln
0 Total economic impact 
DIRECT INDIRECT INDUCED TOTAL (2016-2040)
6.8 54  16,940 3,435
$   bln $  mln
Eni investment Expenditure in  Local jobs created  Local employees trained 
(construction training for local  (2016-2040) over the project life-span
+operation) employees  (100%)
Eni Impact Tool: evaluation of the benefits of local development projects
Eni has developed Eni Impact Tool, a model for assessing the changes generated by a local develop- Eni Impact Tool: 
ment project on the living conditions of the communities. Understanding the long term impact of the so- model for assessing 
cial, economic and environmental dimensions is essential to plan future investments and ensure they  the changes 
are adjusted over time. In 2019, in collaboration with the Agricultural Department of the University of  generated by a 
Milan and thanks to what already developed for the energy sector17, the Eni Impact Tool was extended  local development 
to the agricultural sector. This analysis involves a plurality of initiatives, such as training on agronomic  project on the living 
practices, technical and financial support to entrepreneurs, pushing towards horizontal and vertical  conditions of the 
supply chain integration. In the frame of the local development project in Ghana, the collection of initial  communities
data to define the baseline is currently ongoing, which will be functional for a further assessment of the 
impact of the diversification of income sources on the population’s living standards. The model assess-
es the tangible and intangible resources of a community according to 5 “capitals” (natural, physical,     FOR FURTHER INFORMATION:
human, social and financial), described by dimensions and indicators recognized at international level.  see eni.com
An additional development of the model will refer directly to the SDGs of the 2030 Agenda. 
17) In 2018, the Eni Impact Tool was applied to the energy access sector, with the main case study relating to the Centrale Électrique du Congo (CEC). 