72 CARBON NEUTRALITY IN THE LONG TERM    OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE MODEL    ALLIANCES FOR THE PROMOTION OF LOCAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT AXES
AGROFORESTRY
VOCATIONAL TRAINING  ENTREPRENEURSHIP SUBSIDIES
AND LAND MANAGEMENT
Development of skills through  Microcredit, value chain  Construction of permanent  Financing, materials and 
theoretical or practical training  development, local access  works: land modelling, water  supply of means 
to strengthen the use  to means of production,  management, farm buildings, 
of specific techniques  cooperativism  agricultural land, long-term 
means
EVALUATION HIERARCHY   
CAPITALS DIMENSIONS
NATURAL PHYSICAL HUMAN SOCIAL FINANCIAL
CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL
• Land • “Hard” infrastructure • Education • Equity and inclusion • Economic status
• Water • “Light” infrastructure • Skills • Social cohesion  • Formal economy
• Air • “Smart” infrastructure • Health • Informal economy
• Climate Change • Means of production  • Employment  • Money flow
• Biodiversity • Savings
• Food production • Investments 
• Waste
• Animal welfare 
Logical Framework Approach and monitoring, evaluation and learning system 
“The Logical Framework  Similarly to the practice in the business activities, in local development projects, when possible, Eni adopts 
has the power to  project management tools in line with international standards. In 2019, to enhance the effectiveness and 
communicate clearly and  efficiency of local development projects, Eni developed its own monitoring tool, tested in Congo, Ghana and 
succinctly the essential  Mozambique, based on the Logical Framework of the project. This method, also known as Result Based 
elements of a complex  Management Approach, is able to support all phases of the project which is oriented towards measura-
project throughouth the  ble objectives and impacts through the identification of specific indicators. This approach is summarised 
project’s life cycle”  through a schematic representation (Logical Frame Matrix) of the project’s strategy that shows the causal 
World Bank, 2000 relation of the actions to be developed (activities and inputs) and the effects produced by it (outcome, 
impact). A proper monitoring, evaluation and learning (MEL) system allows to manage the project with 
a view to continuous improvement and allows to identify lessons learned and/or recommendations for 
future projects.
Application of the monitoring tool in Catrep project in Congo
The MEL tool was applied in the testing phase to the Catrep 2 agricultural project (Centre d’Appui Technique 
et de Ressources Professionnelles – phase 2) in the Congo, whose general objective is to promote food 
and nutritional security and the economic growth and diversification of the area, contributing to the SDGs 
1, 2, 5, 8 and 17. Some indicators referred to 3 specific objectives of the project for 2019 are provided below. 
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE  INDICATOR FINAL TARGET (2020)(a) RESULTS AS OF 2019 TREND VS. PLANNED
Creating sustainable jobs  no. of workers and gender  125 122
for young people and  (72 men and 53 women) (72 men and 50 women)
1
women in modern 
agriculture  no. of cooperatives established  10 22
Increased income of small  Cultivated land area  30 hectares 22 hectares
producers and agricultural 
2
cooperatives in the long term 
Assisted farmers  199,800 kg total for 30 ha 9,307 kg tot from 2018  (b)
production quantities   
Promoting training,  no. and type of innovative  3  3 
research and innovation  crops introduced and  (cherry tomatoes, rocket, borlotti beans with dry  (cherry tomatoes, rocket, 
developed  product development) borlotti beans )
3
no. of national and  5  3
international players  FAO, WFP, University of Milan, École Nationale  FAO, WFP, University of Milan
involved    Supérieure d'Agronomie et de Foresterie (ENSAF), 
Institute de Recherche Agronomique (IRA)  
Better performance than planned Trend in line with the planned Trend behind schedule
(a) The project, which had an initial phase from May to December 2017, was expected to be concluded in November 2019 with phase two but was extended to December 2020. 
(b) The 2019 result deviates from the expected estimate, as varieties of cultures with better yields were preferred, during the project, although with lower production in terms of kg produced, such as basil, rocket salad, 
compared to the estimated production of cassava root.  