F2
METHODOLOGY
This consolidated non-financial report (or “Sustainability Report”) has been prepared in accordance 
with Legislative Decree 254/2016 and, as required by Art. 5 of this Decree, is being published se-
parately from the directors' report. The report provides information on topics that are considered 
material as envisaged by Arts. 3 and 4 of Legislative Decree 254/2016 with reference to financial 
year 2019 (from January 1 to December 31), to the extent necessary to ensure an understanding 
of the business, its performance, results and social and environmental impacts. The definition 
of material topics for the Italmobiliare Group (the "Group") and for its stakeholders is based on a 
structured process of materiality analysis, which is explained in the "Sustainability Management" 
section of this document. 
Italmobiliare S.p.A. is an Investment Holding that holds and manages a diversified portfolio of in-
vestments and participations with a strategic vision, supported by a financial and industrial history 
of over one hundred and fifty years.
1 For the companies consolidated  The scope of the economic and financial information in this Sustainability Report is the same as in 
on a line-by-line basis, reference is  the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Italmobiliare Group at December 31, 20191. The sco-
made to the table in the “Annex” on 
pe of the data and social and environmental information provided in this Report varies according 
the Annual report of Italmobiliare 
Group at December 31, 2019. to the materiality of these topics for the various Group companies. 
The scope of the figures and social information includes the companies consolidated on a line-by-li-
ne basis in the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Italmobiliare Group if considered material 
for the reporting of these issues. In particular, SEPAC and Crédit Mobilier de Monaco are excluded 
from the scope of this Report due to the absence of significant social and environmental impacts 
and risks and their immateriality in understanding the Italmobiliare Group's business. For the same 
reason, Punta Ala Promozione e Sviluppo Immobiliare S.r.l. and Italmobiliare Servizi S.r.l., included 
in the report 2018, have been excluded. In addition, Rosa Plast Due S.r.l., which was absorbed by 
Sirap GEMA S.p.A. on December 5, 2019, has been excluded due to the progressive reduction in 
production that took place during 2019 in view of the definitive closure of its one plant in Bovezzo, 
which was completed on October 31. Finally, Capitelli Fratelli S.r.l., acquired in December 2019, 
will be included in the social and environmental information starting from the 2020 Sustainability 
Report.
The scope of the environmental information coincides with the production plants of the companies 
controlled by Italmobiliare, which operate in the industrial sector (Caffè Borbone, Italgen and Sirap). 
The administrative and sales offices are therefore excluded as they are considered immaterial to 
understanding the Group's business and the impact that they have. Furthermore, with respect to 
the business sector, the following topics were not considered material: “conscious consumption of 
raw materials” for Italgen and “water management”  for Caffè Borbone, given that water consump-
tion is limited to sanitary uses. 
The data related to 2018 has been included for comparative purposes so to facilitate the asses-
sment of the business's performance. It should be noted that the social and environmental data of 
Caffè Borbone S.r.l. were accounted for 2018 in order to ensure consistency with the comparison 