F12
‧ 
monitoring operational risks and opportunities associated with the investment portfolio, taking 
part in the evaluation and approval of strategic investments and divestments and other M&A 
opportunities, in coordination with the Development and Investment Department.
The constant dialogue that underlies the relationships between Italmobiliare and the portfolio com-
panies addresses the issues of economic, social and environmental sustainability. Accordingly, 
the Management Team of the Holding Company and the Investment Management Department 
provide operational support to the portfolio companies in implementing the Sustainability Policy 
and the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Plan, which Italmobiliare adopted in 2019, as 
explained in paragraph 1.3 Sustainability Management.
As part of the process of strategic planning for sustainability, a training course was organised for 
top and middle management of the portfolio companies, with the purpose to spread and share 
best practices in the social and environmental field to facilitate the independent identification of 
policies and sustainability objectives by individual companies.
During 2019, Italmobiliare had specific ESG interactions with ten portfolio companies (equal to 96% 
of assets) in various ways:
‧ 
interactions in the field of governance, including implementation and application of 231 Models
‧ 
periodic meetings to monitor and evaluate performance
‧ 
collection of qualitative and quantitative data for the purpose of reporting and non-financial 
communication
‧ 
budgeting, including ESG areas
‧ 
due diligence (in the case of add-ons)
‧ 
stakeholder engagement activities
‧ 
integrated risk mapping at Group level
‧ 
sustainability training activities for management
‧ 
analysis of non-financial reports.
As is known, the dynamics of the global economic cycle, despite showing signs of stabilization and 
possible recovery in the new year starting from the last quarter of 2019, suffered the effects of the 
"Coronavirus" shock. The impact generated through direct (demand) and indirect (business value 
chain) multipliers and channels, is difficult to quantify even with respect to similar events (such as 
SARS), given China's greatest weight on world growth and trade, and the stronger interconnection 
between different geographical areas. The potential effects of this phenomenon on the activities 
of Italmobiliare and of the Portfolio companies cannot be determined to date and will be subject to 
constant monitoring throughout the year.
As a responsible investor, Clessidra SGR has also adopted an ESG Plan to support its dealings with 
the companies that make up the Funds portfolio. The Plan envisages, among other things, that 
companies define their own ESG action plans by 2020, with the support of the SGR, and report an-
nually on their implementation, the ESG initiatives undertaken and the risks and opportunities that 
have been identified. The ESG performance of the portfolio is monitored annually by recording a 
common set of around 40 environmental, social and governance KPIs.  Clessidra also establishes 
responsibilities and processes for timely monitoring and reporting if there are particular ESG even-
ts at the companies. Significant ESG incidents and related corrective actions taken are promptly 
reported to the funds' investors (known as "Limited Partners").
During 2019, the SGR interacted with all four companies in the portfolio in the implementation and 
monitoring of the ESG Plan and related reporting.
1.3 Sustainable investment principles
ITALMOBILIARE
The objective of Italmobiliare's investment activity is to increase the value of the portfolio in the 