F18
activities and its organisation, and is subject to continuous updating in order to maintain constant 
compliance with the regulations; the latest revision of the Model was approved in 2018. In com-
pliance with the Model, Italmobiliare S.p.A. supervises all those behaviours that, if implemented, 
would lead to situations that could be punished under the law. With regard to potential illegal con-
duct, Italmobiliare S.p.A. identifies the main activities that could involve the risk of committing the 
following types of offence: 
‧ 
Offences against the Public Administration; 
‧ 
Corporate offences; 
‧ 
Market abuse; 
‧ 
Murder and culpable injury in violation of accident prevention regulations; 
‧ 
Receiving stolen goods, laundering, use of money of illegal origin, self-laundering; 
‧ 
Organised crime and transnational crimes; 
‧ 
Copyright infringement; 
‧ 
Cybercrime. 
The rules contained in the Model apply to all those who perform management, administration, ma-
nagement or control functions in Italmobiliare S.p.A., to employees, even if they are posted abroad 
on secondment for the business, and to those who, even if not employees of the Company, work on 
its behalf or are linked to it in some way. Italmobiliare S.p.A. undertakes to guarantee the dissemi-
nation and effective knowledge of the Model to all recipients: training, which also took place during 
2019, is mandatory and differentiated in terms of content and delivery according to the level of 
the recipients, the level of risk in the area where they work, their degree of involvement in sensitive 
activities as indicated in the Model and whether they exercise any functions involving company 
representation. Italmobiliare S.p.A. communicates the Model 231 and any subsequent editions or 
updates to its subsidiaries directly. The task of continuously supervising effective functioning and 
compliance with the Model, as well as proposing updates to it, is assigned to the Supervisory Body 
of Italmobiliare S.p.A., and given adequate resources to ensure autonomy, professionalism and 
independence in the exercise of its duties. Italmobiliare S.p.A. adopts the measures deemed most 
appropriate to identify violations of Model 231 and encourage reporting them on a timely basis, 
also anonymously through reserved channels ("whistleblowing"). 
Sirap GEMA S.p.A., Clessidra SGR S.p.A., Caffè Borbone S.r.l. e Italgen S.p.A have also adopted 
their own Model, based on the principles and contents of the Parent Company's Model, without 
prejudice to the existence of specific situations (relating to the nature, size, type of activity or the 
structure of the internal delegations of power) that suggest the adoption of different measures in 
order to effectively pursue the objectives of responsibility for administrative offences. In Septem-
ber 2019, Caffè Borbone adopted its Model 231 and appointed a Supervisory Board, simultaneou-
sly implementing the whistleblowing system by activating an e-mailbox for anonymous reporting 
of suspicious behaviour. Training sessions for the recipients of Model 231 will be held in 2020; 
in September, the Company also organised an antitrust training course for all professional roles 
involved in this type of risk.
In its investment activities, Clessidra undertakes to promote compliance with applicable regula-
tions and the highest ethical standards at the portfolio companies. In particular, it collaborates with 
the portfolio companies in order to adopt or update its Organisational Management and Control 