F20
1.6 Risk Management
Italmobiliare has risk management bodies, systems and processes in line with international best 
practices, which allow constant monitoring and effective management of economic, financial, so-
cial and environmental risks at Group level and conscious decision-making on such matters.
Italmobiliare has adopted an Internal Control and Risk Management System (ICRMS) that consists 
of the rules, procedures and organisational structures to enable the identification, measurement, 
management and monitoring of the main risks to which the Company and its subsidiaries are 
exposed. After consulting the Risks and Sustainability Committee, the Board of Directors of Italmo-
biliare establishes the guidelines of the ICRMS and, at least once a year, assesses the adequacy 
and effectiveness of the system with respect to the characteristics and risk profile of the Company. 
These Guidelines are sent to the subsidiaries so that they can take account of them in the defini-
tion and maintenance of their own ICRMS, without prejudice to each company's autonomy and 
independence.
The SCIGR includes the Risk Management Model which is designed to identify, assess and mana-
ge the main corporate risks, based on the guidelines defined periodically by the Board of Directors. 
The risk assessment process is coordinated by Italmobiliare's Internal Audit Department and is 
divided into three phases: 
‧ 
identification of the main risks at Group level
‧ 
assessment of the various types of potential impact (economic, operational and/or reputatio-
nal) on the subsidiaries and the Group with the respective probability of occurrence
‧ 
appropriate preventive and mitigation strategies for risks identified as material.
In 2019, the risk assessment process was strengthened by foreseeing direct involvement by mana-
gement of the subsidiaries in the assessment of the individual types of risk, in light of the specific 
aspects of their respective sector contexts and operating models and on the basis of uniform 
metrics. The assessments made by the subsidiaries regarding the risks included in the catalogue 
are subsequently consolidated at Group level, taking into account the weighting on overall NAV. The 
accuracy and reliability of the process is facilitated by the adoption of Enterprise Risk Management 
systems by the companies that have been subsidiaries the longest; implementation of this system 
for Caffè Borbone was started in 2019 and will be further strengthened in 2020.
Italgen, in coordination with Italmobiliare, its parent company, has put in place an integrated tran-
sversal ERM process that allows the identification, measurement, monitoring and management of 
the risks to which the company is exposed. The analysis, which can be defined as dynamic as it 
makes it possible to predict the onset of new risks or the modification of existing ones, is carried 
out in depth at least once a year and the results are shared at the highest corporate levels. The 
scope of analysis includes all external and strategic risks, governance and compliance risks, ope-
rational risks and financial risks. The "risk catalogue" has recently been integrated with all of the 
material sustainability issues.
In 2014, Sirap defined its own internal control and risk management model (Risk Model) in imple-
mentation of which all the risks relevant to the Group were mapped and catalogued on the basis of 
indicators that take into account magnitude and probability of occurrence (so-called "heat map").  
The "top risks", i.e. the most significant risks in relation to which data sheets are defined, have been 
identified as part of all the mapped risks (risk reporting) with an indication of control protocols 
and mitigation plans defined by management, the person responsible for implementation and the 
timing of completion of the activities.  On an annual basis, when the budget is drawn up, an as-
sessment is carried out to update the risk catalogue and define the top risks for the following year 
(with related mitigation plans). 