Sustainability Report | RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE ENVIRONMENT F31
3.2 Sirap
3.2.1 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT POLICIES    
Attention to sustainability prompted Sirap to adopt an Environmental Policy back in 2012: a sy-
stem of guidelines that ensure the Group's compliance with the environmental regulations of the 
countries in which it operates and the adoption of the best ecological standards in production 
processes. 
In 2019, Sirap renewed its commitment by adopting the new "Sustainability - Quality - Health, Safety 
and Environment" Policy, which promotes the reduction of consumption and the sustainable use of 
resources through the involvement of all members of staff. The implementation of the policy will 
become an assessment criterion for professional development within the Group. 
Production activities are subject to strict regulations to protect the environment and the surroun-
ding population, in accordance with European directives. Sirap carries out in-depth technical and 
administrative analyses, on a preventive basis, to identify the effects of Group's plants on the en-
vironment and the local community. Thanks to the installation of particular storage silos, the pro-
cesses involved in producing food packaging in rigid and expanded plastic polymers, which use 
various technologies such as thermoforming and extrusion, are constantly monitored and do not 
release harmful emissions that exceed the legal limits of the individual countries, nor do they have 
an impact on the aquifers below the plants.
During the two-year period 2018-2019, as part of the integrated HSE management system certified 
according to the UNI ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards, each Group plant introduced a set 
of environmental indicators designed to keep the main inputs and outputs under control. Within 
the next two years, Sirap will align the recently acquired production sites (Tarascon, Sedgefield and 
Puig-Reig) to the standards mentioned above.  
3.2.2 MATERIALS AND PACKAGING  
Sirap, with the parent company Sirap Gema S.p.A. at the forefront, acted on three different levels 
to reduce its environmental impacts from the use of raw materials, while applying the principles of 
the circular economy.
‧ 
Consumption: when developing new products, SIRAP uses the Ecodesign method, an approach 
to product design that pays particular attention to environmental impacts during the entire life 
cycle. This method permits considerable savings in terms of the raw material used, thanks to 
resizing the shapes and thickness of the product. 
‧ 
Recycling: SIRAP has embarked on a process of reducing the use of virgin raw material with the 
introduction of new products containing a high percentage of recycled plastic. To continue to 
reduce the environmental impact of raw materials, SIRAP has defined an annual growth target 
for the proportion of recycled products. The environmental performances of these products are 
confirmed and continuously improved, thanks to Life Cycle Assessment studies.
‧ 
End of life: to collect and recycle products at the end of their life cycle, SIRAP has raised its 
level of communication about packaging, also on social media. Besides, it has activated aware-
ness initiatives through category groups and collaborations with stakeholders in the recycling 
industry, including COREPLA (Plastic Recovery Consortium), in identifying solutions to make 
finished products recyclable after use by the consumer, including composting. 