Sustainability Report | RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE ENVIRONMENT F33
3.2.3 ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND EMISSIONS 
The “Energy Saving” project has been activated in 2012 to make the company more energy effi-
cient, reducing waste and its environmental impact. The effect of waste control and analysis is 
twofold: it encourages an evaluation of the most efficient technical solutions oriented towards the 
"Best Available Technologies" and allows greater staff involvement and awareness of environmen-
tal issues.
Energy Saving was launched with an Energy Audit at the Castiglion Fiorentino site and progressi-
vely extended to all of the Group's Italian plants, identifying an Energy Team.
The project aims to reduce energy waste by acting in various areas: 
‧ 
Staff behaviour 
‧ 
Process optimisation
‧ 
Plant maintenance 
‧ 
Lighting management 
‧ 
Capital investment 
‧ 
Compressed air management.
The implementation of the environmental indicators of the integrated management system will 
make it possible to carry out in-depth analyses of each plant's energy performance, to provide 
support for consumption improvement activities. In the first half of 2020, a trigeneration plant will 
be installed at the Italian location in Castelbelforte (Mantua) which can produce electricity, heat and 
cooling energy from natural gas, ensuring greater efficiency in terms of consumption.
Since 2018 Sirap has also set up a Life Cycle Assessment department to carry out product life 
cycle analysis, and to evaluate the actual improvements on products as a result of its energy opti-
misation policies
In the group's Italian factories, the information is gathered and analysed through systems instal-
led on the plants that monitor the equipment. The consumption data of the main machinery in 
the plant are sent to a server and can be controlled remotely in real time. The site's Energy Team 
periodically organises a meeting in which new proposals and ideas are analysed and feedback is 
given on the steps that have been taken. All staff can collaborate by reporting areas of inefficiency 
to be corrected, which are promptly considered and processed. Moreover, in relation to energy 
consumption, Sirap has defined and constantly monitors an energy performance indicator, the KEI 
(Key Energy Indicator), obtained from the ratio between the kWh used and the tons of raw material 
processed. In foreign plants, the KEI is measured using the energy consumption data from the bills 
of energy suppliers, as a monitoring system will be implemented in the next two years.