F40
SPECIAL HAZARDOUS WASTE
The management of hazardous substances is attributable to maintenance activities and the pre-
sence of oil in the plants. The process of cooling the oil in the turbines is monitored by specific 
instrumentation and supervised by the personnel. The adoption of preventive measures, combined 
with appropriate awareness and staff training, make it possible to control this aspect and to pre-
vent soil and water contamination. 
The high voltage electrical transformers present in most hydroelectric power plants are arranged 
above a specially built containment tank, so that, in the event of an emergency, any leakage of 
dielectric insulating oil is conveyed to the underground collection tank. Within the EMS, a periodic 
inspection plan was also provided for the tanks and underground tanks for collecting the transfor-
mer oil. The oil used at the shut-off devices is contained in small tanks built above ground, making 
it easy to detect and resolve any leaks. Italgen has identified lubricating oils for the shut-off devices 
with environmental guarantees of biodegradability. The commitment is to gradually extend the 
use of these oils to all plants subject to revamping or plant modifications, as a guarantee of lower 
environmental impact on water in the event of a leak. The records of the EMS make it possible to 
document even minor incidents and therefore improve prevention action. Over the last few years, 
there have been no accidental spillages at any of the plants.
URBAN WASTE
Office waste is picked up by the municipal collection service, in accordance with the current regu-
lations.
WASTE MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL METHODS
Waste management activities comply with the regulations (Legislative Decree 152/2006 Part IV). 
Accordingly, different types of waste are separated at the time of collection and identified with the 
appropriate EWC code according to its nature and state. Storage and handling take place in con-
ditions that ensure the control of any accidental leaks, using containment basins and absorbent 
material.
Italgen identifies target indicators for the annual quantities of production and disposal of hazar-
dous and non-hazardous waste, to increase the delivery of waste to processors for recovery and 
recycling.
Italgen's weight of 
HAZARDOUS WASTE  t 2019 t 2018
waste by disposal 
method Recovery, including energy recovery 8.0 21.2
Landfill 0.2 0 
Total 8.2 21.2
NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE t 2019 t 2018
Recovery, including energy recovery 1,669.9 337.1
Total 1,669.9 337.1
In 2019, the production of hazardous waste more than halved (-62%), due to the lower incidence 
of extraordinary maintenance and replacement of plants; on the other hand, the volume of special 
non-hazardous waste from "sgrigliato" increased, mainly as a result of cleaning the bed of the Ges-
so River at the Borgo San Dalmazzo power plant (Cuneo).