Sustainability Report | RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS PEOPLE F43
4.1 Enhancement and development of people
4.2 Italmobiliare
At 12/31/2019, Italmobiliare's workforce consists of 37 people, all permanently employed and divi-
ded equally between women (51.3%) and men (48.6%). 
2019 2018
Men Women Total Men Women Total
Permanent employment contract 18 19 37 20 16 36
Fixed term employment contract 0 0 0 0 1 1
Total 18 19 37 20 17 37
4.2.1 HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT POLICY   
In Italmobiliare, the selection and insertion of the human resources required to meet the business's 
needs (on schedule, with the most suitable contractual types, with the skills and aptitudes required) 
are regulated by specific internal procedures. The selection process does not in any way discrimi-
nate against potential candidates for reasons of nationality, gender, religious belief or age. New 
employees are given an induction programme by the Head of Human Resources to facilitate their 
entry into the organisation.
Human resource management, based on the values of correctness, loyalty, transparency and mu-
tual respect, is regulated, from a contractual point of view, in accordance with current labour law. 
The values expressed by the Code of Ethics represent the rules of conduct which are the basis for 
professional and personal relationships within the Company. 
Each individual's set of relational, intellectual, organisational and technical skills are considered 
a strategic resource, which Italmobiliare protects and enhances, in the light of Corporate Social 
Responsibility, so that individual aptitudes find realization and recognition, also through adequate 
refresher courses. Italmobiliare guarantees equal opportunities and treatment, from all points of 
view, respecting all types of diversity.
Italmobiliare applies a remuneration policy based on a merit matrix that combines performance 
and importance of the position on the external market in terms of remuneration.
The offer of additional benefits is an integral part of Italmobiliare's human resource management 
policy. 
A non-occupational life/accident and permanent disability policy is stipulated for both managers 
and employees and a supplementary pension fund is available to both categories with the Com-
pany topping up monthly contributions by a percentage laid down in the national labour contract.
Managers have access to supplementary health insurance that also covers their families. They are 
assigned a company car for business and private use.