Sustainability Report | RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS PEOPLE F47
4.4.1 HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT POLICY   
The recruiting, selection and orientation process is governed by the "personnel administration" pro-
cedure, which is applied for all staff needs in Italy. Although not explicit in the corporate procedure, 
it is the Group's practice to give preference to women, assuming they have the same profile, tech-
nical skills and characteristics, to balance the number of male employees.
For the first level of the Steering Committee and for the Key Roles, an Induction Program is envisa-
ged to help the insertion of new resources, under the responsibility of the Central HR Recruitment 
Officer. 
A key objective of the Parent Company's HR function is the attraction and recruitment of talented 
young people, which is pursued through unconventional processes. In 2018-2019 the European 
Packaging Project was set up to respond to the orientation needs generated by the acquisitions 
in 2018. This involved launching a communication campaign and employer branding in partner-
ship with Monster and a road show in various Italian and European universities (Nice, Manchester, 
Lecce, Stuttgart, Hanover, Leeds, Barcelona and Poznan). At the end of the recruitment phase, 16 
young Italian, European and non-European talents were selected and they received specific training 
on Sirap packaging through the corporate Academy, as well as technical training and team working 
and outdoor activities. The path continued with the assignment of individual projects to each of 
these new hires, supported by a tutor. Project evaluated positively by the Steering Committee and 
the CEO were rewarded and the people concerned were hired under an apprenticeship contract.
Sirap offers its employees a wide range of benefits to promote their well-being and help reconcile 
work and family life.
The company has had a corporate welfare plan since 2016, through which it is possible to take ad-
vantage of a wide range of social security, welfare, educational, cultural and recreational services. 
For production workers and middle managers, the plan is financed through the results-based bo-
nus, for managers through the MBO system. The company encourages the use of these services, 
increasing the amount allocated by the worker by 10%.
Managers benefit from life insurance, as well as a programme to cover health expenses for them-
selves and their families, while middle managers have access to the Open Phases supplementary 
health care fund.
In order to encourage the birth rate, a "marriage and birth prize" is offered to each employee who 
gets married or has a child after they start working for Sirap; this is worth 250 euro, which the wor-
ker can freely spend on consumer goods or services. It also recognises loyalty to the company by 
rewarding employees after their first year of work in the company and after every 5 years of service. 
This takes place in convivial surroundings as part of the Christmas festivities.
A Car Policy is provided for all Sirap companies which applies to the members of the Group Ma-
nagement Committee, to managers who are entitled to the assignment of company cars for work 
and private use.
4.4.2 TRAINING 
Training in Sirap is a permanent factor for the development and updating of staff skills. It is split 
into two different areas:
‧ 
analysis of needs by function/country and related construction of ad hoc training courses in 
response to explicit and implicit needs
‧ 
construction of recurring training logics for the development of technical skills both hard (with 
activities carried out in the factories or offices according to a training model) and soft, in the 
linguistic and behavioural field (people management and communication management).