Sustainability Report | RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS PEOPLE F51
4.6.1 HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT POLICY   
Clessidra has adopted a remuneration and incentive system in line with the long-term corporate 
strategy, with the objectives, values and interests of the Alternative Investment Funds under ma-
nagement and the related investors, including measures aimed at avoiding conflicts of interest 
through careful management of corporate risks. The remuneration and incentive policy supports 
the alignment of interests with investors, financial and socio-environmental performance, corpo-
rate values, the development and retention of professional skills. Thereby, the policy gives rise to a 
continuous interaction that allows constant improvement of the remuneration practices adopted, 
on the one hand, and, on the other, consolidation of the various elements considered above.
The main benefits envisaged for managers include a private life and accident insurance policy, 
a medical expenses reimbursement policy and cover in the event of permanent disability from 
illness, as well as a company car. There is a policy for middle managers and employees for cases 
of permanent disability due to illness, while a welfare plan is provided for all employees.
4.6.2 TRAINING
The Operations function, which is in charge of personnel management, prepares annually with the 
support of the Compliance function a training plan to be submitted for examination and approval 
by the Board of Directors. 
Based on the approved plan, the Operations function proposes to recipients that they attend trai-
ning courses or activities organised within the company or by external bodies. Acceptance by the 
recipients is in any case subject to authorisation by their direct supervisor, if they have one. 
The staff can, on their own initiative, report specific needs and training opportunities that the Ope-
rations function evaluates in consultation with the direct supervisors of the employee or collabora-
tor, where present, formulating, if necessary, any alternative proposals.
The Operations function is responsible for tracking the training activities by monitoring the courses 
carried out, the period that they took place and people who took part, keeping an archive of any 
certificates of participation.
As regards the recognition of individual performances, the SGR has equipped itself with an internal 
assessment system for all staff which is based on individual annual objectives (qualitative and 
quantitative) and on ex-post measurement of their achievement. 
The process of evaluating "key personnel" provides for the definition by the Remuneration Com-
mittee of the individual objectives consistent with the Company's strategic plan, based on the per-
formance and risk criteria and parameters laid down in this document. Then, with the support of 
the Chief Executive Officer, the Head of the Investment Team and the Operations function, the 
Remuneration Committee establishes the objectives to be assigned individually and the weighting 
in percentage terms of the various parameters, in order to determine the degree of achievement of 
the objectives on which the annual variable remuneration is based. 
The objectives identified by the Committee are included in the individual forms and each employee 
is required to express their opinion on the degree of achievement of these objectives. The summary 
of these assessments, prepared by the Operations function, is made available to the Remuneration 
Committee at the time of the annual assessment. On the basis of the analyses of the achievement 
of the individual qualitative and quantitative objectives, the Committee determines the percentage 
of the annual bonus due to each resource.