Sustainability Report | HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK F55
5.1 Italmobiliare
Italmobiliare S.p.A. considers the creation of safe workplaces as an essential condition for the 
professional growth and development of its employees. As an employer, the Company operates in 
compliance with Legislative Decree 81/2008, constantly monitoring the accident trend and provi-
ding training and informing workers about general and specific risks related to health and safety 
in the workplace.
Pursuant to Legislative Decree 81/2008, the Company has appointed an external Head of the Pre-
vention and Protection Service (HPPS). After having carried out an inspection with the employer 
and the company's Workers' Safety Representative (WSR), the HPPS prepared the Risk Assessment 
Document (RAD) in which all possible hazards related to the workplace and tasks are identified, 
suggesting appropriate prevention and protection measures. The document is updated whenever 
there are significant changes in the organisation of work for the purpose of protecting the health 
and safety of workers, following significant accidents or when the results of health surveillance 
highlight the need. It is shared with everyone responsible for the health and safety of workers: 
employer, WSR, HPPS and company doctor. The company doctor is responsible for carrying out 
preventive visits during the hiring phase, the annual inspection of all workplaces and an annual 
programme of surveillance visits.
In addition to the RAD, the Company has adopted an "improvement plan" which lays down the steps 
to be taken to adjust and monitor the prevention and protection measures. Pursuant to art. 35 of 
Legislative Decree 81/2008, a periodic meeting is held annually involving the employer, the com-
pany doctor, the HPPS and the WSR to update them on the activities carried out during the year and 
what needs to be done the following year. An internal Emergency Management Team (EMT) has 
also been appointed. Its members regularly attend refresher courses to update their knowledge of 
first aid and fire-fighting, which allows them to handle any emergency situations.
All employees and new hires are trained and informed through general and specific safety trai-
ning courses. In particular, in 2019 the General Maintenance Manager took part in safety courses 
related to working at heights and elevating platforms in view of the renovation of the Company's 
headquarters, while all managers have completed the mandatory training courses.
For Italmobiliare, safety is closely linked to the psychological and physical well-being of its people, 
which it promotes by offering employees health and social security benefits. 
For middle managers, office workers and intermediate staff, through the Altea/Unisalute Fund, the 
Company provides a health plan for medical examinations and specialist tests, which covers all 
or part of the expense. Once a year, Italmobiliare sends all employees a communication listing all 
reimbursable services and prevention packages (modular check-ups). Furthermore, through the 
Company's welfare system, employees can book medical examinations and specialist tests in pri-
vate/affiliated structures using the credit that they have built up. As for management staff, a free 
annual check-up is provided at accredited facilities.
During 2019, the Company also launched a corporate health initiative to promote the well-being of 
its personnel. For this purpose, proposals for outdoor activities such as running and brisk walking 
were identified, for which the Company has suggested two running and pedestrian paths to disco-
ver the city parks closest to the headquarters, providing employees with a suitable environment for 
changing their clothes.