F62
6. RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS CUSTOMERS 
AND INVESTORS
Although they operate in different industrial sectors and different markets, Italmobiliare and its sub-
sidiaries are united in that they apply the highest possible standards of safety and integrity in the 
products and services that they offer to customers, as well as the regulatory obligations, which are 
combined with careful monitoring of the transparency and correctness of communications to custo-
mers and effective protection of personal data belonging to customers and other key stakeholders. 
The manufacturing companies (Caffè Borbone and Sirap) are committed to providing safe and hi-
gh-quality products, while Italgen is committed to guaranteeing maximum reliability and continuity in 
its electricity production and distribution service. In its Private Equity business, Clessidra protects its 
investors by adopting the most stringent criteria of transparency and correctness in the information 
that it provides on investment products.
In 2019, Group companies did not receive any complaints about violations of customer privacy, nor 
did they suffer any data losses or leaks
.6.1 Italmobiliare
6.1.1 RELATIONS WITH THE FINANCIAL COMMUNITY
As regards Italmobiliare, managing shareholder relations has taken on considerable importance 
with a view to transmitting effectively the value creation potential which is inherent in the 
Company's investment activity. Relations with Italmobiliare's shareholders are coordinated by the 
Investor Relator, following the instructions of the Chief Executive Officer and General Manager 
and in collaboration with the other Departments and Corporate Functions involved. 
In order to improve and increase communication with the financial community, Investor Relations 
during 2019 focused on:
‧ 
ensuring stable coverage by leading equity research analysts, with Equita (coverage reactivated 
in January 2019) and Kepler Cheuvreux (coverage activated in September 2019) which today 
follow the Italmobiliare stock with constant updates on the Company's activities (e.g. periodic 
financial results, extraordinary transactions, etc.);
‧ 
taking part in the main investor conferences organised by investment banks and Borsa Italiana;
‧ 
preparing to join the STAR segment of Borsa Italiana (admission achieved in September 2019) 
which groups mid-cap companies that undertake to comply with requirements of excellence in 
terms of transparency, liquidity of the stock and corporate governance.
In support of Investor Relations, in 2019 Italmobiliare renewed its website to improve the usability 
of information of an economic-financial nature (Investor section) and on the portfolio companies 
(Activities section) and the related sustainability profiles (Sustainability section). Similarly, in 2019 
the Company launched a newsletter for the financial community, with important information on 
economic and financial performance and significant events for the portfolio companies.