Sustainability Report | RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS CUSTOMERS AND INVESTORS F65
issues, Italgen has developed an automated system to constantly monitor the entire production 
process and the operating parameters of the plants. At the same time, remote-controlled cameras 
have been installed at the plants, which make it possible for the Control Room to carry out an im-
mediate visual check on all plant and hydraulic works and intervene in real time. Starting from the 
results of monitoring, conformity assessment and internal audits, opportunities for improvement 
and updating of the Integrated Management System of products and services are defined. 
34 As a consequence of the afo-
rementioned events, in 2019 the 
average  outage  duration  index 
In 2019 there were four episodes of general interruption of the service for a total of 135 minutes,  (calculated as the ratio between 
with an average duration of 34 minutes, whereas there were 12 interruptions, limited to individual  the total duration of outages and 
the number of plants affected by 
distribution lines without affecting the service as a whole, which lasted a total of 33.5 hours. The 
outages) went from 0.25 to 3.3, 
main cause of these episodes was extreme weather conditions; in particular, 20 hours of interrup- while the outage frequency index 
tion were linked to a single episode of trees that fell across power lines due to a heavy snowfall that  (calculated as the ratio between 
the number of interruptions that 
affected the Val di Scalve on December 20, 201934. In this sense, Italgen is at the forefront in limi-
occurred and the number of plants 
ting the impact of increasingly frequent atmospheric events due to climate change, contributing to  affected by interruptions) decrea-
the maintenance of forest areas close to the plants and transmission networks. sed to 0.09 from 0.25 in 2018.
The protection of transparency and correctness of customer information is also a guiding value 
for Italgen.
Given that an electricity bill is a document that is not particularly easy to understand, together with 
the tax invoice Italgen attaches a technical document that specifies all of the items that make up 
the total amount to be paid. The meaning of each item is then explained in another attachment 
called the Bill Guide. In addition to this, according to the provisions of the Ministerial Decree of 31 
July 2009, Italgen shows on the bill and on its website the procurement mix used for supplying 
end-users.
6.4.2 PROTECTION OF CUSTOMER DATA
In order to ensure compliance with the requirements of the GDPR, Italgen has adopted the data pro-
tection model of its parent company, Italmobiliare. Particular attention is also paid to the continuity and 
protection of production data, as well as the entire production process, thanks to a back-up system that 
makes it possible to store all the signals. As regards the company's administration systems (ERP/SAP 
environment), a disaster recovery service has been activated, which backs up the entire database on a 
daily basis and stores it in a place other than the primary server.
6.5 Clessidra SGR
6.5.1 INVESTOR PROTECTION AND TRANSPARENCY IN 
PRODUCT INFORMATION
For Clessidra, the quality of the services offered to its investors is of fundamental importance to 
establish and maintain a good level of relationship. The general objective when communicating 
with subscribers is to guarantee an adequate and equal level of information for all investors and, at 
the same time, to safeguard the confidentiality of certain information that has been processed and 
the successful outcome of ongoing investment/divestment transactions.
Within 60 days from the end of each year, Clessidra prepares a management report on each of its 
funds in accordance with the Bank of Italy's Collective Savings Management Regulation. The report 
includes a balance sheet, income statement, notes and directors' report and is subject to certifica-
tion by the Independent Auditors. 
On a voluntary basis and in agreement with investors and according to international practice, the 
SGR also prepares a quarterly report called the LP Report which contains information based on 
official data similar to that of the management report. Those in charge of drafting respond jointly 