SOL GROUP  –  OUR IDENTITY 9
M I S S I O N A N D E T H I CA L P R I N C I P L ES
The Group’s mission is to provide its customers with  Human resource development: we view attracting 
innovative and technologically advanced solu- and developing the loyalty of new talents and, in 
tions at all times and to offer patients the best pos- general, training and developing the capacities of 
sible home care services, contributing to improving  individuals as key to the success of the SOL Group.
the quality of life on the planet.
The SOL Group adopted a Code of Ethics in 2006 
The values in which the SOL Group believes and from  in order to clearly and transparently define the set 
which it takes daily inspiration are: of values and principles that inspire the SOL Group 
companies  when  pursuing  their  goals,  observing 
Ethical behaviour: in interpersonal relations, towards  national and international regulations with respect 
employees, customers, suppliers and all stakeholders. for the legitimate interests of the different categories 
of stakeholders.
Safety: we regard the workplace safety of all employ-
ees, as well as the safety of the products and services  The Code was reviewed in 2017 with the aim of 
we provide to our customers and patients, as priority  further highlighting the principles and conduct that 
issues. must characterise relationships with all stakeholders. 
A clear and simple style was adopted to make sure 
Customer satisfaction: we are committed to provid- that the contents are immediately comprehensible.
ing our customers with innovative and technologically 
advanced solutions at all times and to improving the  The Code is a tool for governing the company and fos-
quality of life of our patients, guaranteeing them the  tering sustainability in the SOL Group, representing a 
best treatment and the best possible home care. set of guidelines for the day-to-day activities of its 
stakeholders. Among the various issues addressed, 
Balanced development: we work to create balanced  of particular importance are the respect for human 
economic growth and constant development in the  and individual rights, the prevention and fighting of 
long term, employing resources efficiently and con- corruption, and the safeguarding of workplace health 
stantly guiding them towards change. and safety and the environment protection along the 
supply chain.
Environmental protection: we seek to safeguard the 
environment by optimising processes, and therefore 
using energy resources in the best possible way, and 
by developing technologies and services that help our 
customers improve their environmental efficiency.