SOL GROUP  –  GOVERNANCE SYSTEM 11
In 2017 the SOL Group celebrated its 90th anniversary: S.I.O.L. 
(Società Italiana Ossigeno Livorno) was founded on 10 October 1927 in Monza. 
To mark the occasion the SOL Group shot a new corporate video with evocative 
images presenting the philosophy, values, activities and key numbers 
of the Group with our pay-off, “a breath of life”, tying the whole thing together. 
1998 2002 2010 2012 2017
In order to be more  The Group decides to  The SOL Group  In 2012 SOL enters  SOL expands its 
competitive on the  enter the renewable  broadens its horizons  the Turkish market  activities in the 
international markets,  hydroelectric energy  outside Europe  with a joint venture  biotechnology sector 
in July 1998 parent  production sector to  founding Sicgilsol  in the home care  by acquiring a majority 
company SOL Spa is  cover part of its energy  in India in 2010 - a  sector and with the  stake in Personal 
floated on the Milan  requirements, acquiring  joint venture for  creation of a second  Genomics, a Verona-
Stock Exchange. The  and developing  the production and  company dedicated  based company with a 
arrival of the third  hydroelectric power  marketing of gas from  to the development of  lab for DNA sequencing 
generation of the  plants in Slovenia,  air separation - together  industrial activities.  and genetic data 
Annoni and Fumagalli  Bosnia Herzegovina,  with Sicgil, a company  interpreting services. 
Romario families at the  Albania and Macedonia,  owned by the Dadabhoy 
helm of the company,  for an overall installed  family, the main liquid 
together with a young  capacity of around 30  carbon dioxide supplier  2015
executive management  MW. in the Asian country. 
team from outside 
the families, enables  Taking advantage of  In 2015 SOL enters 
the Group to  the experience, it has  the Moroccan market, 
aggressively pursue its  acquired in the creation  with the acquisition of 
internationalisation and  and management  a 100% stake in Flosit, 
development strategy. of cryobanks for the  and the Brazilian 
storage of biological  market, through a joint 
samples, in 2010  venture with a local 
the Group enters the  entrepreneur, acquiring 
biotechnology sector. a majority stake in 
Vivisol Brasil (formerly 
Inspirar).