SOL GROUP  –  OUR IDENTITY 13
D E V E LO P M E N T O F T H E G RO U P
THE ACQUISITIONS for the primary production of gas. In Bulgaria SOL 
Bulgaria began work on the construction of a new 
The company concluded various important corporate  plant for the production of carbon dioxide. In France 
transactions in 2017. work began at the SOL France plant in Cergy Pontoise 
to expand the production of dry ice.
In the home care area, it acquired Irish company 
Direct Medical and the Turkish Respitek, both of which  In Bosnia and Herzegovina Megaelektrik completed 
specialised in respiratory diagnostics, as well as Swiss  work on the construction of a new hydroelectric 
company Sitex, which specialises in palliative care.  energy production plant.
In the technical gases sector Gebze Gaz, a Turkish  In  India  Sicgilsol  completed  the  development  of 
company with a filling plant near Istanbul, and Italian  a new plant for the production of nitrous oxide in 
companies Sterimed and Re.Vi., active respectively  Ranipet in the state of Tamil Nadu. 
in the planning, development and management of 
sterilisation centres and clinical engineering services  The programme for the improvement, modernisa-
for electromedical apparatus (operating tables, neo- tion and streamlining of SOL’s production plants 
natal incubators, ultrasound machines, defibrillators),  in Europe continued. This activity mainly involved the 
became part of the Group. primary production units of Mantua in Italy, Sisak 
in Croatia and Skopje in Macedonia, as well as the 
Finally,  in  the  biotech  sector,  Personal  Genomics,  secondary production units of Ancona, Bari, Catania, 
a University of Verona spin off, became part of the  Cremona and Pisa in Italy, Vitrolles in France, Wiener 
Group, opening up new paths in this area.  Neustadt  in  Austria,  Cork  in  Ireland,  Lessines  in 
Belgium and Skopje in Macedonia. 
MAIN INVESTMENTS Various onsite industrial and medical plants were 
developed and opened in Italy and abroad, and the 
During the 2017 financial year 52.4 million euro of  vehicles for the transportation, distribution and sale 
technical investments were made in the technical  of products were enhanced with the acquisition of 
gases area, 19.3 million euro of which by parent com- cryogenic tankers, cryogenic liquid tanks, cylinders, 
pany SOL Spa, and 41.3 million euro in the home care  dewars and electromedical apparatus in order to 
sector. support the Group’s development in all of its business 
areas and geographical regions. 
In particular, in Italy work continued on the devel-
opment of a new highly automated plant for the  Finally, the investments to improve the information 
testing and maintenance of compressed gas cylin- systems also continued.
ders, which is expected to be completed by summer 
2018.
Diatheva completed work on the development of a 
new cell-factory for the production of monoclonal 
antibodies and diagnostic kits.
In Slovenia SPG continued with its work to modern-
ise and expand the production capacity of its plant 