SOL GROUP  –  GOVERNANCE SYSTEM 15
CO R P O R AT E G OV E R N A N C E
The SOL Group corporate governance and control sys- The  SOL  Group’s  commitment  to  protecting  and 
tem, founded on the central role played by the Board  respecting the principles of the free market and 
of Directors of parent company SOL Spa, revolves  competition was recently consolidated and strength-
around the balanced representation and roles of the  ened through its adoption of the Antitrust Compli-
corporate  bodies,  interaction  with  stakeholders  ance Program and approval and dissemination of 
and transparency, both towards the market and in  two new documents that clearly and succinctly out-
internal procedures. line the core principles of the regulation to observe: 
the Antitrust Code and a more practical Handbook.
The SOL governance structure comprises the follow-
ing bodies: Board of Directors, Shareholders' Meeting,  The Antitrust Code ensures that the core values in 
Board of Statutory Auditors and Independent Audi- terms of protecting competition are well known and 
tors. The Board of Directors directs and governs the  constitute a standard of conduct for all SOL Group 
business, pursuing the goal of creating value for its  personnel when carrying out their respective activities. 
shareholders, in strict compliance with the law and  The Handbook summarises the main rules of conduct.
the Group’s mission and values.
The Antitrust Function was created at the same time. 
All of the most significant projects, including those  Covered by the Legal Affairs Department for Italy and 
relating to sustainability performances, are assessed  by the Country Managers for the Group’s non-Italian 
by the Board of Directors. companies. It is responsible for monitoring the imple-
mentation of the Antitrust programme and providing 
For further information see the “Investor Relations”  assistance in this area to everyone in the Group. 
section of www.solgroup.com. Among its other duties, the Antitrust Function also 
organises training events to promote the awareness 
and understanding of the contents of the regulation.
THE INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
The systematic monitoring of the correct application 
of the corporate governance principles takes place 
The SOL Group internal control system is a series of 
via a system that involves the presence of dedicated 
processes designed to guarantee the honesty, trans-
company structures which carry out monitoring, con-
parency,  efficiency,  effectiveness  and  reliability  of 
trol and risk management activities.
corporate management, as well as respect for laws, 
and to prevent fraud that damages the company. 
The Board of Directors of parent company SOL Spa 
The system is guided by the Code of Ethics and all 
has created the Internal Control Function which is 
internal regulations and procedures, including those 
tasked with ensuring that internal operating and 
of the integrated Quality, Safety and Environmental 
administrative procedures are correctly respected.
management system.
The person in charge of the Internal Control Func-
Both SOL Spa and Vivisol Srl have adopted the Organ-
tion does not answer to any departmental manager 
isation, management and control model estab-
but directly to the top management. Verification 
lished by Italian Legislative Decree no. 231/2001 and 
activities are performed both at the management 
subsequent amendments and additions, which forms 
offices of the Monza headquarters and at the sites of 
an integral part of the internal control system.
the Group’s operating companies.
The first versions of the two Models date back to 
Both SOL Spa and Vivisol Srl have also formed their 
2006 and have been subsequently updated to take 
own Supervisory Bodies which, equipped with the 
account of acquired management experience, the 
appropriate instruments and the necessary independ-
introduction of new offences and related laws. The 
ence, verify compliance with the Organisation, man-
two Models were last updated during 2016 following 
agement and control model pursuant to Legislative 
the introduction of new environmental offences and 
Decree no. 231/2001 and, together with the Country 
the crime of self-laundering.
Managers, respect for the Code of Ethics.