16 SOL GROUP  –  GOVERNANCE SYSTEM
G OV E R N A N C E O F S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y
On  28  November  2016  the  Corporate  Social  In 2017 the SOL Group updated its management 
Responsibility (CSR) Committee was set up with the  systems to bring them into line with the new ISO 
Directors, General Managers and Central Managers  9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 13485:2016 
appointed as its members. standards.
The CSR Committee validates the sustainability goals 
and coordinates and stimulates the operating struc-
tures of all of the Group companies. RESPONSIBLE CARE
In 1995 SOL Spa was one of the first companies in 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Italy to subscribe to Responsible Care, the voluntary 
programme of the world chemical industry supported, 
The SOL Group has chosen to organise its Quality,  in Italy, by Federchimica, in which it plays an active 
Safety and Environmental management system in  part, with its own representative on the managing 
an integrated way in order to guarantee coverage of  Committee.
all its activities, eliminating pointless duplications and 
emphasising synergies. As part of this programme, several environmental and 
workplace safety performance indicators are collected 
The  governance  of  the  management  sys- each year, which are also used in this report.
tems  is  entrusted  to  the  Quality,  Safety  and 
Environmental  Management  System  Steering  On 7 January 2015 SOL signed up to the “Responsible 
Committee (Comitato Guida Sistema di Gestione  Care Global Charter”, thus pledging to promote the 
Qualità, Sicurezza e Ambiente, CGSQ) made up of the  principles and content of the initiative in all countries 
Directors, General Managers and Central Managers.  where the Group is present.
This has the task of reviewing the management sys-
tem to ensure its efficacy and suitability over time. On 23 April 2015 subsidiary Flosit also signed up 
to the programme, promoted in Morocco by the 
In  operational  terms,  the  management  systems  “Federation de la Chimie et de la Parachimie”.
fall under the responsibility of Quality, Safety and 
Environmental  Central  Management,  Regulatory  The  implementation  of  the  “Responsible  care” 
Affairs (DIQS), which reports annually to the CGSQ. Programme at SOL Spa was subject, in 2017, to 
an  “Audit  of  the  testing  model  established  by 
The DIQS presents its progress and any updates to  Federchimica”. This audit confirmed compliance with 
the  Directors  and  Central  Managers  at  quarterly  the principles and requirements of the Programme.
report meetings and the investment summit.
Matters relating to organisation, labour and indus- RISK ANALYSIS
trial relations are handled by Personnel and Legal 
Affairs Central Management, which presents human  SOL Group’s activities, products, services and supply 
resources management data annually to the CEOs  chain, as well as its commercial relations, are exposed 
and General Managers. to social and environmental risks.
The management system is founded on the Policies,  SOL Group adopts a risk mapping and assessment 
documents approved by the Chairman and General  methodology that assigns a relevance score to each 
Managers of the Group that outline the principles  risk according to the impact assessment, the proba-
behind the operations of the Group companies and  bility of occurrence and the management system in 
define  the  objectives  that  the  top  management  place. The identification of the context in which SOL 
intends to pursue in the various business areas. Group operates, including the expectation of the 