SOL GROUP  –  GOVERNANCE SYSTEM 17
Group’s main stakeholders, was an integral part of the  issues covered by the Code of Ethics. The Code of 
analysis. Ethics applies to all those who, in various way, come 
into contact with the Group, including suppliers, part-
The main risks regarding non-financial matters to  ners, customers. The Code includes, among others, 
which the Group is exposed are attributable to: provisions regarding the protection of safety, health 
•  environmental matters: potential risks related  and environment, human rights respect and preven-
to electricity consumption of the Group’s primary  tion and fight of corruption.
transformation plants, potential risks related to 
direct  and  indirect  greenhouse  gas  emissions,  The Group has activated processes and manage-
potential risks related to outbound logistics, with  ment systems in order to mitigate the most rel-
particular reference to road transport.  evant risks, so as to guarantee the correct control of 
•  social matters: potential risks related to com- the matters. In particular, the Group’s most significate 
pliance with existing regulations regarding infor- units have obtained certification such as ISO 9001, 
mation to customers and patients, potential risks  OHSAS 18001, ISO 14001, ISO 50001, ISO 13485, 
related to the supply of products and services that  ISO 27001, ISO 22000. During 2017, the SOL Group 
address customers’ needs, potential risks linked  progressively updated its quality and environmental 
to the traceability of the origin of products and  management systems, respectively to the new ISO 
services, potential risks regarding the suppliers of  9001:2015,  ISO  13485:2016  e  ISO  14001:2015 
services of home care sector and in general the  standards. This entailed the start of a process of anal-
management of social and environmental risks  ysis of company activities in order to identify risks and 
along the supply chain, potential risks regarding  assess opportunities related to business processes. 
the failure to respect human rights, with particular  The  analysis  took  into  account  the  sustainability 
reference to the supply chain.  issues that are relevant to the SOL Group, in particular 
•  employees’  related  matters:  potential  risks  the risks potentially present in product making phases 
related to employees’ health and safety and to  and service delivery, as well as in business relation-
compliance with legislation concerning occupa- ships. The assessment was extended, where relevant, 
tional health and safety. to the supply chain.
•  compliance with laws and regulations: poten-
tial risks related to non compliance with laws and  The Group has also adopted specific policies, docu-
regulations, including bribery and corruption. ments signed by the Chairman and by the General 
Managers containing the statement of the principles 
Given the abovementioned potential risks, the Group  that underlie the activities of Group’s companies, in 
has assessed the existing internal control system for  particular:
the different activities, possible gap to be filled and  •  Quality  management  policy  of  SOL  Group 
related measures to improve internal controls.  companies;
•  Food safety policy of SOL Group companies;
The company function that oversees the main envi- •  Energy  management  policy  of  SOL  Group 
ronmental and health and safety risks is repre- companies;
sented by Company Managers, under the oversight of  •  Information security management policy of SOL 
the Quality, Safety and Environment, Regulatory  Group companies;
Affairs central Department. •  Safety and environment principles of SOL Group 
companies;
The same Company Managers, supported by any  •  Principles and values on which personnel policies 
local or corporate designated functions, also oversee  are based in SOL Group companies.
the risks related to employees’ management and the 