18 SOL GROUP  – IL SISTEMA DI GOVERNO
F E D E RC H I M I C A AWA R D S 
S O L FO R I T S B I O M E T H E R P RO J EC T
In 2017 SOL won the Responsible Care award for  The biomethane is produced by purifying biogas, a 
the BioMethER project, developed in collaboration  process known as “upgrading”. The upgrading pro-
with Aster, the Region of Emilia-Romagna, CRPA Lab,  cess removes undesirable components and makes it 
IREN, IREN Rinnovabili, IRETI and HERAmbiente. possible to obtain a gas with a methane content of 
95% or higher.
Financed  by  the  European  Commission  LIFE+ 
programme and co-funded by the Region of Emil- Of the two pilot plants involved in the project, the 
ia-Romagna, the project was developed by the SOL  first plant to be developed is at the treatment plant 
Technical and Testing Department and involves the  in Roncocesi, a district in the Municipality of Reggio 
creation of two pilot plants for the production of  Emilia. The pilot plant uses around 250,000-300,000 
biomethane destined to be fed directly into the grid  m3 of biogas every year, which was previously burnt 
or used as transport fuel. off using flares. The project makes it possible to pro-
duce around 140,000 m3 of biomethane every year, 
the equivalent consumption of 150 methane-fuelled 
cars travelling an average of 15,000 km a year, avoid-
ing the emission of around 340 tonnes of CO.
2
The project is an important example of the circular 
economy as it makes a resource out of a product that 
until yesterday was regarded as waste.
A new phase of the project was launched in 2017 
with the arrival of ENEA and Volkswagen. Produced 
in Roncocesi, the biomethane will be used to fuel 
two cars made available by Volkswagen Italia, filled 
using an ENEA pump and used by IREN employees. 
The monitoring of the performances of these vehi-
cles compared with those of the same model when 
fuelled using fossil methane will make it possible to 
assess the impact of the two different forms of fuel 
on the wear and tear of the engine. 