30 SOL GROUP  –  CUSTOMERS, PATIENTS AND SUPPLIERS
SOL for the hospital sector thresholds. The adoption of the most modern tech-
nologies guarantees precision in the dosing of treat-
The SOL Group is aware that new health and ther-
ments and eliminates the risk of identifying potential 
apeutic protocols require scientifically and techno-
preparation errors, therefore guaranteeing the utmost 
logically advanced products, services and devices in 
safety of the patient. 
order to achieve the best possible performances and 
therapeutic results.
Electromedical equipment 
SOL therefore acts as a partner for the supply of 
products,  services  and  equipment,  allowing  the  management service
healthcare system to focus on its core business of 
SOL also acts as a partner for the routine manage-
delivering the "health" product to a very particular 
ment, operation and emergency management of 
customer - "the patient".
electromedical apparatus, from the simplest devices 
to  diagnostic  machinery  and  life-saving  therapy 
Design and development of medical  devices.
devices
The SOL Group is able to design, manufacture and  Sanitising services
manage Medical Devices such as centralised plants 
SOL offers specialist hygiene programmes that are 
for the production and distribution of medical gases, 
able to meet the needs of public and private users: 
endocavitary aspiration and the evacuation of anaes-
from the design, development and operation of ster-
thetic gases; devices for the administration of drugs, 
ilisation centres for surgical instruments and units for 
devices for the emergency management of gases; 
the treatment and sanitisation of water and air, to the 
supplementary materials, accessories and consuma-
supply of personalised integrated services.
ble materials for the administration of drugs and the 
use of gases.
In this context SOL performs accredited analyses for  Ambulance management services
verifying the quality of the medical gases adminis-
Patient  care  begins  from  the  moment  they  are 
tered at the terminal distribution units.
transferred to hospital. For this reason, SOL is able 
to provide ambulance managers with medical and 
Total Gas Management services electromedical devices for their vehicles, maintenance 
and safety verification services, vehicle sanitisation 
The Total Gas Management service (TGM) offers 
services and structured and voluntary staff training.
health structures the possibility of minimising the risks 
connected with the handling of medical gas packages 
and containers and their procurement. The service is  Monitoring service
designed case by case in order to satisfy the require-
SOL is able to offer a complete range of services 
ments of different organisational models.
for environmental, particle and specific substance 
The  integrated  platform  InfoHealth®,  developed  monitoring (e.g. anaesthetic gases in operating envi-
by Zucchetti, allows the traceability of medical gas  ronments), custom-designed for each type of room 
containers and mobile medical devices, the manage- in the hospital facility according to the actual risk of 
ment of the stock and the planning of the ordinary  exposure.
maintenance programme for mobile and fixed med-
ical devices and technology systems. The traceability 
Training services
form is validated according to Good Manufacturing 
Practices, contributing  to information security. Training in the safe use of medical gases, their con-
tainers and accessories is fundamental for the correct 
Preparation and distribution of  administration and handling of products.
Training  is  provided  through  ECM  courses,  which 
antineoplastic drugs
can be accredited upon the request of the customer. 
Healthcare worker safety is a priority also in the design  These can be held both residentially and remotely in 
and construction of laboratories for the preparation  order to satisfy the needs of structures and individual 
of antineoplastic drugs, where personal exposure to  students.
hazardous chemicals must not exceed strict critical 