Home oxygen therapy service Alternative communication
Vivisol operates throughout Italy and in the main European  Vivisol is able to offer a service dedicated to those affected 
countries, providing care for patients with respiratory  by pathologies that limit or prevent communication, for 
insufficiency. Thanks to Vivitravel, patients can also con- example neuromuscular pathologies. The possibility this 
tinue to use the service even when away from home. innovative service offers of being able to communicate inde-
pendently again leads to a real improvement in the patient’s 
Ventilation therapy quality of life.
Thanks to agreements with leading global manufacturers, 
Artificial nutrition service
Vivisol is able to supply the most advanced mechanical 
ventilation devices, which can also be interfaced with  Vivisol assists artificial nutrition patients at home with the 
different remote monitoring systems.  aim of guaranteeing their safety and peace of mind and 
ensuring they continue with their treatment. They do this 
The Vivisol service includes installation, ordinary and extraor-
by providing a complete service which includes verifying the 
dinary maintenance, instruction and training for the patient 
socio-environmental conditions of the patient’s residence, 
and caregiver.
supplying the prescribed nutritional mixtures, selecting and 
installing medical devices suitable for domestic use, provid-
Treatment of sleep-related respiratory 
ing training to the patient and caregiver, providing ongoing 
disorders technical assistance and communicating the patient’s treat-
ment to the relevant specialist centre.
Sleep quality analysis is a science that makes it possible to 
intervene with suitable therapies on certain pathologies that 
Telemedicine
are often hidden or latent. The Vivisol service makes it possi-
ble to accurately analyse sleep quality in order to identify  Telemedicine is both a goal and a launch pad that charac-
the most suitable treatment and to remotely monitor the  terises the evolution of Vivisol’s activities in patient home 
clinical data collected directly at the patient’s home. care. Through the selection and development of the most 
advanced communication technologies, it is possible to 
Aerosol therapy
reduce times and distances, enabling doctors to monitor 
Aerosol therapy is a natural, age-old and effective form of  patients at home with a level of effectiveness and imme-
medical treatment with no contraindications and with rec- diacy comparable to hospital care.
ognised benefits. The service includes installation of the 
apparatus in the patient’s home, training, which is also 
extended to the patient’s family, and a technical assis-
tance service.