36 SSOOLL  GGRROOUUPP   ––  I LG OGRVUERPNPOAN SCOEL SYSTEM
Design and development of biobanks Genomic diagnostics
The service of designing and developing ISO 9001  Biotechsol provides pre- and post-natal diagnostic 
certified cryobiological rooms is aimed at public and  screening services which are important for ensuring 
private structures that carry out scientific research and  the correct development of new-born babies as they 
manipulation for cell, tissue and organ transplants  enable the early diagnosis of numerous diseases 
and that need to preserve their biological samples for  which, if diagnosed in time, can be treated.
long periods of time in liquid nitrogen.
Diatheva diagnostic systems are innovative because 
they permit the identification and quantification 
Disaster Recovery
of pathogens through DNA amplification techniques 
in any matrix and for any requirement.
The  Disaster  Recovery  service  guarantees  public 
and  private  structures  the  transfer,  in  emergency 
Compared with traditional techniques, such as cul-
situations,  of  biological  samples  to  cryobiological 
tures, the new Diatheva systems can reduce the time 
rooms owned by the SOL Group. In particular, Cryolab 
required to obtain results to just a few hours and 
is authorised by the Italian Ministry of Health and 
are aimed principally at the food and environmental 
the Italian National Transplant Centre for the long-
control sectors where fast analytical results are critical 
term and disaster recovery conservation of human 
for taking decisions that affect the safety of people 
gametes.
and the environment.
Bioshipping Through its subsidiary Cryolab, the SOL Group is now 
active in the research and development of protocols 
The Bioshipping service provided by Cryolab makes 
for cell manipulation and in particular stem cells, the 
it possible to transport biological samples between 
new frontier of regenerative medicine.
health structures in completely safe and traceable 
conditions, with the continuous monitoring of all  In 2017 these activities were joined by genetic and 
parameters. bioinformatic analyses thanks to the accredited Per-
sonal Genomics laboratory, which makes Next Gen-
This service is becoming increasingly popular and 
eration Sequencing technologies and advanced 
important, and is also used for delicate and often 
bioinformatic tools available to preventive and preci-
unique samples such as gametes. Cryolab is able to 
sion medicine.
satisfy  the  reliability  and  very  high  specialisation 
requirements established by applicable regulations 
for Medically Assisted Procreation structures.