SOL GROUP  –  CUSTOMERS, PATIENTS AND SUPPLIERS 41
TECHNOLOGIES FOR INDUSTRY Increase in safety: the use of inerting nitrogen con-
tributes to the safety of industrial installations.
Given the growing sensitivity of customers to envi-
ronmental and safety matters, the SOL Group has  Reduction of pollutants: controlling pH with CO 
2
invested in the identification and development  replaces the use of mineral acids (sulphuric and hydro-
of innovative technologies which, starting with an  chloric) which leave pollutants in the water. Modified 
understanding of customers’ needs and using the pro- atmosphere packaging protects food products while 
ducts supplied, make it possible to improve working  reducing the use of chemical preservatives.
conditions from an environmental, economic and 
safety point of view.
HEALTHCARE SERVICES
Improving water quality: the use of oxygen in 
wastewater treatment makes the purification process  The SOL Group is constantly looking for answers to 
more effective, reducing environmental impact and  the health management challenges that are posed 
ensuring better control over the treatment.  both by hospitals and by patients who use home care 
services.
Disinfection with ozone protects the watercourses 
where wastewater is re-emitted after treatment from  That's why SOL believes that it is necessary for hospi-
bacterial pollution and also avoids the use of chlorine  tals to be supplied not only with traditional medical 
compounds. gases (oxygen and nitrous oxide), but also with the 
equipment to use them and, above all, services that 
Reduction  of  energy  consumption  and  emis- enable customers and doctors to focus on the main 
sions: in the metal and glass industries the use of  purpose of their activities, namely patient care.
oxy-combustible burners developed by SOL permits 
more efficient combustion than using only air, with  The safety of patients, operators and all those pre-
a consequent reduction in energy consumption and  sent for various reasons in the places where medical 
atmospheric emissions.  gases and services are supplied, managed and admi-
nistered is a primary objective. The experience we 
On-site plants: Producing gas directly on industrial  have acquired and the continuous exchange of infor-
customer premises using on-site plants significantly  mation enables SOL to introduce innovations to pro-
contributes to protecting the environment because it  ducts and services with the aim, among other things, 
makes it possible to: of making them inherently safer: examples include 
•  reduce the atmospheric pollution associated with  the integrated reducing valves for compressed gas 
road transport, typical of traditional supplies in  packages, safety and protective devices for handling 
cylinders or tanks; cryogenic gases and the safety and monitoring sen-
•  reduce energy consumption since the production  sors for the rapid analysis of hazardous atmospheres.
process, specialising in just a single gas with spe-
cific characteristics, consumes less energy than a  We also seek to reduce the environmental impact of 
traditional centralised plant. our activities by improving the efficiency of tran-
sportation, by optimising stocks through the use 
Promotion of more sustainable transport: the use  of management systems that keep track of packages 
of fuels with lower environmental impact, like lique- distributed within healthcare facilities, and by digita-
fied natural gas, makes it possible to reduce emissions  lising accounting documents and reports.
deriving from the circulation of cars, buses and lorries.