42 SOL GROUP  –  CUSTOMERS, PATIENTS AND SUPPLIERS
Patients with chronic conditions such as sleep apnoea  The management of the Safety Data Sheets (SDS) 
or respiratory insufficiency can rely on home care  of all substances and for all companies operating in 
services which, conditions permitting, enable them to  the European Community is centralised at the Monza 
enjoy lives of the highest possible quality and inde- headquarters. There are currently around 4,000 avai-
pendence, avoiding hospitalisation. lable SDS in 19 languages. All of the sheets and all 
of the labels applied to mobile containers conform 
to Regulation 1272/2008 (CLP - Classification, Label-
GENOMIC DIAGNOSTICS ling and Packaging), which regards the European 
standardisation of the classification and labelling of 
There are several advantages of genomic diagnostics  hazardous substances and preparations.
which the Group makes available to its customers:
•  Prevention:  by  performing  tests  on  a  healthy  As regards REACh (Regulation on Registration, Eva-
population the probability of being able to take  luation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals), 
prompt action to prevent some illnesses is higher. the process of registering the substances marketed by 
•  Early identification of problems: by screening  SOL will be completed in 2018.
new-born babies and carrying out predictive tests 
on a population that is at high risk of a specific ill- Product traceability - and particularly that of medi-
ness it is possible to identify anomalies in advance  cal gas containers which require the implementation 
and, potentially, take early action. of a pharmaceutical vigilance system - provides infor-
•  Assistance for the ill: by identifying DNA muta- mation on the location of products at all times, also 
tions it is possible to modulate personalised tre- permitting prompt withdrawal actions in the event of 
atments to improve the effectiveness of healthcare. problems with the delivered products.
SAFE PRODUCT MANAGEMENT
The safety of products is monitored both in the 
production phase and during transportation, right 
through until they are used by customers, using risk 
assessment processes.
The SOL Group takes part in national and interna-
tional working groups on product safety matters in 
order to stay constantly updated on the evolution of 
regulations and to be able to operate in harmony with 
other companies in the sector.