SOL GROUP  –  CUSTOMERS, PATIENTS AND SUPPLIERS 43
C U S TO M E R SAT I S FAC T I O N 
Customer satisfaction is periodically monitored through  In the United Kingdom, Dolby Vivisol collects custo-
ad hoc surveys.  mer feedback at each visit, involving approximately 
32,900 patients in 2017.
In 2017, in particular, several monitoring activities 
were carried out by SOL in Albania, Bulgaria, Croatia,  Furthermore, some key performance indicators (KPIs) 
France, Greece, Ireland, Morocco and Slovenia, invol- are  constantly  monitored  (customer  complaints, 
ving around 600 customers. In the home care area,  response  times  to  customer  orders  and  patient 
Vivisol in Germany, the Netherlands, Spain, Direct  requests, etc.) in order to promptly activate the neces-
Medical in Ireland, and Sitex in Switzerland have con- sary corrective actions.
ducted surveys of more than 8,000 clients/patients. 
S U P P L I E R S
The SOL Group implements a supply policy that guar- Suppliers are required to read and adhere to the 
antees all potential suppliers equal opportunities to  Group Code of Ethics and, in Italy, also the Organi-
propose their products and services. It also establishes  sation, Management and Control Model pursuant to 
that relationships with them are managed according  Legislative Decree no. 231/01, as well as the Group’s 
to criteria of impartiality, honesty and openness to  safety and environment policies.
competition.
The companies that are part of the SOL Group are 
When selecting its partners for the supply of goods  essentially  'local'  businesses.  Production  facilities 
and services that are critical for safety, quality and  are built close to customers and distribution is usually 
the environment, SOL uses a qualifying  process  carried out within the home country of the vendor 
to establish whether a potential partner meets the  company. The supply chain is therefore relatively sim-
requirements demanded by company procedures. ple and suppliers are mostly locally-based. 
Possession of these requisites is verified by objective  The main products and services purchased by the 
methods such as the filling out of questionnaires and,  Group companies are electricity and transport, main-
where necessary, the carrying out of audits at supplier  tenance and technical assistance services. There is a 
premises. wider choice of suppliers available for capital goods: 
sales media (cylinders, tanks, tankers, etc.), systems 
During 2017, 81 supplier audits were performed (30  and equipment.
in 2016), which concerned mainly aspects connected 
to quality, environment and health and safety.