48 SOL GROUP  –  THE ENVIRONMENT
The types of plants listed in the previous page repre- Furthermore, the substances produced and handled 
sent the reporting scope of environmental data within  by the SOL Group do not pose a contamination risk to 
the Sustainability Report, unless otherwise indicated. the soil and subsoil. Some SOL Units have been con-
structed in locations that have soil and groundwater 
The activities of the SOL Group have a fairly limited  contamination problems, but these have other causes 
impact on biodiversity as the production units are  and predated the arrival of SOL.
relatively small and located in industrial areas. 
E N E RGY CO N S U M PT I O N
The SOL Group’s activities use electricity, methane  The actions to reduce energy consumption are not 
and steam as energy vectors. limited to the optimisation of processes and careful 
plant management but also extend to the design 
Its methane and steam consumption is negligible  and choice of plant solutions and the upgrading of 
and, as such, this report only analyses the consump- the machinery used in plants, to which an important 
tion of electricity, one of the critical factors in the air  percentage of the investment budget is set aside 
separation process for the production of cryogenic  each year.
gases. In fact, both the compression and liquefying of 
gas are highly energy-intensive operations: as a result,  Consumption is however considerably influenced by 
it is estimated that the energy consumption of the  customer demand and the start-up (or shutdown) of 
primary production plants accounts for about  production plants.
90% of the Group’s energy consumption.
More specifically, the increase in energy consumption 
In light of its highly energy-intensive activities, since  in 2017 is due to the start-up of the Augusta air 
2002 the Group has invested in the production  separation unit which entered into regular operation 
of energy from renewable sources, acquiring 7  at the start of the year. Nevertheless, there was an 
hydroelectric power plants and constructing 8 ones,  improvement  in  the  efficiency  ratio  compared 
of a total installed capacity of around 30 MW dis- with 2016 due to the commissioning of new plants 
tributed across 15 power stations in Slovenia, Albania,  and the investments made to modernise the existing 
Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia. In 2017  ones. 
the electricity they produced was equal to 77 GWh, 
accounted for 14.3% of the Group’s energy consump-
tion, down 41% compared with 2016 due to the lower 
amount of rainfall recorded during the year.