54 SOL GROUP  –  THE ENVIRONMENT
WAT E R CO N S U M PT I O N A N D WAS T E WAT E R 
For the SOL Group, managing water resources means: closed circuit: the consumed water is the water reintrodu-
•  optimising the use of water in its plants by redu- ced into the circuit to compensate for evaporation.
cing withdrawals to a minimum, also through 
investments in recycling; The quantities used in secondary process units and offices 
•  research  and  application  at  customer  sites  of  are negligible and are therefore not reported.
technologies  which,  by  using  technical  gases, 
can improve processes such as the treatment  The 2017 figure is slightly up due to the launch of the 
of wastewater or the purification of water for  Augusta plant.
public use.
Production plant wastewater is periodically controlled. 
Most of the withdrawn water is used in the cooling circuits  The analyses show that concentrations are well below the 
of machinery in primary process units. These systems are  legal limits.
WATER WITHDRAWALS (mc x 103)
2013 2014 2015  2016  2017
Municipal water 126
Well water 1,271
TOTAL 3,043 3,112 2,135 1,337 1,397
G E N O M I C D I AG N O S I S FO R 
E N V I RO N M E N TA L M O N I TO R I N G
It is possible to sequence the DNA not only of human  will be validated on Lake Yliki in Greece and on the Ter 
beings, but also of all living organisms; hence the  River in Spain.
possibility of applying genomics to micro-organisms 
responsible for the pollution of water, air and soil.  The data collected will be made available to the 
communities and to the inhabitants living in the area 
The  INTCATCH  project,  which  involves  Personal  under analysis, and to all the stakeholders interested 
Genomics, aims to develop strategies and monitoring  in the project.
systems for surface waters, thanks to the use of innova-
tive and user-friendly technologies, able to provide data  The business model will enable community groups and 
and parameters in real time.  NGOs to improve water governance through a sustain-
able quality management, using cloud data linked to a 
Physico-chemical,  biological  and  genomic  analysis  decision support system and environmentally friendly 
will be conducted with a fleet of autonomous and  technologies.
radio-controlled aquatic drones, equipped with innova-
tive sensors and DNA test kits. The subject of the study  The  project,  funded  by  the  Horizon2020  program, 
will be Lake Garda in Italy and the River Thames in the  involves six European universities and fourteen institu-
United Kingdom, while research and results obtained  tions (including public and private European companies).