SOL GROUP  –  PEOPLE AND THE COMMUNITY 59
SOME STAFF DEVELOPMENT  In order to manage expertise and promote progres-
INITIATIVES sive training to foster the loyalty of its employees, 
the SOL Group organises specialist and executive 
People are the focus of the SOL Group’s attention,  technical training programmes. A total of 50,501 
particularly when it comes to initiatives designed to  training hours were supplied in 2017, the equivalent 
develop, enhance and incentivise personal perfor- of around 14 hours per employee (13 hours per 
mances: the Group strongly believes that the contin- employee were provided in 2016).
uous updating of expertise and professional growth 
constitute strategic investments.
AVERAGE NO. OF TRAINING HOURS BY GENDER AND EMPLOYEE CATEGORY
Men Women Managers and clerks Factory workers
14.45 13.74 14.15 14.31
Figures referred to 2017
In countries where there is no system for collecting data on training hours by gender or role, these figures were estimated on the basis of the composi-
tion of the company population in that company.
The activities of the Academies, aimed at various  For the sales force of the foreign companies in the 
“professional families” and organised to strengthen  medical sector, the SOL Group organised four days 
the professional training process, continued in 2017. of interactive management training involving simula-
tions and business games, with the aim of strength-
2017 saw the conclusion of the Fly High programme,  ening loyalty and the ability to work as part of a team, 
the process launched in 2016 to identify and develop  and improving decision-making and problem-solving 
talent within the SOL Group. The project represented  abilities.
an important opportunity to align the expectations of 
individuals with the strategies and needs of the Group  In France, Vivisol carried out a training program involv-
with the goal of fostering continuous growth. After an  ing approximately 76 employees for two days on the 
initial meeting involving team building activities and  subject of road security and the promotion of gender 
project management training, with the help of a few  equality with the participation of the management. 
head  office  managers  the  participants  developed 
a business plan on a project idea assigned to them. 
The projects of the two winning groups were later pre-
sented during the annual meeting of the SOL Group 
senior managers in December. 