SOL GROUP  –  PEOPLE AND THE COMMUNITY 61
REMUNERATION AND SOCIAL  INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
BENEFITS
Personnel  and  Legal  Affairs  Central  Management 
The SOL Group makes no distinction between the  directly manages industrial relations for all Italian 
genders in the management of remuneration policies  companies in the Group and coordinates them for 
which, for each role, are based on merit, competences  overseas companies, intervening when necessary.
and results.
SOL is an active member of the chemical industry 
Where required by local legislation in the countries in  confederation  (Federchimica)  and  takes  part  in 
which it operates, the SOL Group applies the collec- negotiations in Italy for the renewal of the chemical 
tive contracts for the relevant sector or, alterna- and  chemical-pharmaceutical  national  collective 
tively, salaries above the minimum legal wage.  labour agreements and in other joint schemes by the 
social partners.
On average, wages and salaries, which are monitored 
by local managers and Personnel and Legal Affairs  At corporate level SOL maintains periodic relations 
Central Management, are in line with or better than  with its unions based on the utmost cooperation and 
those established by the reference contracts. transparency.
In 2017 the overall salary paid to Chairman and CEO  67.5% of the SOL Group’s employees are covered 
Aldo Fumagalli Romario was 13.53 times the average  by collective labour agreements, including 100% of 
overall salary of Group employees in Italy. (1) Italian employees and 52.2% of employees in other 
countries.
Every year, all managers are required to evaluate 
the performances of their staff and to refer wage  No labour disputes occurred in any of the Group 
increase and/or career development proposals to the  companies and in 2017 there were no recorded 
relevant departments and Personnel and Legal Affairs  hours of strike action. The difficult negotiations for 
Central Management. the renewal of the company contract in the Group’s 
Macedonian  companies  also  concluded  positively 
In any case, the wage increases established by collec- with the signing of a satisfactory agreement for both 
tive industry contracts or by law are guaranteed and,  parties on 28/2/2018.
where union representation is present, supplementary 
contracts are negotiated that can include, as is the  During the year the transfer of mobile container test-
case in Italy, France and Macedonia, production and/ ing activities from a unit in Northern Italy to a new 
or participation bonuses connected with productivity,  and larger centre built in the province of Caserta was 
company profitability and accident rate parameters. completed. The repercussions on the employees were 
very limited thanks to the transfer of the majority 
In countries where there is collective bargaining, the  of staff to other activities at the same unit and the 
Group strives to incentivise tools that protect the  incentivisation of personal enterprise initiatives.
health of employees and their families, and those 
that integrate the pension services established 
by local laws.
(1) The overall salary includes gross annual remuneration plus the variable components. All employees of SOL Spa and of the other companies whose payroll is man-
aged directly by the HR Department are considered.