66 SOL GROUP  –  PEOPLE AND THE COMMUNITY
E I GA AWA R D FO R BTG
BTG, a Belgian Group company with head office in  When collecting the award, Andrea Sinigaglia, head 
Lessines, was awarded the Peter J. Jackson Award by  of BTG, outlined the key principles that have enabled 
the European Industrial Gases Association (EIGA) for  the company to achieve the goal of zero absences 
its safety performances in 2017. due to accidents since 2012: the understanding that 
safety comes before everything else, an understand-
Created in honour of Peter J. Jackson, former chair- ing of the risks and constant communications at all 
man of the EIGA Safety Advisor Group, the award is  levels, training and education, and the reduction of 
presented to the EIGA member company that pro- stress in the workplace.
duced the best results in terms of reducing workplace 
accident rates over a 5-year period.
CO M M I T M E N T TO T H E CO M M U N I T Y
The SOL Group has always supported bodies, institu- and skills of its resources who illustrate the Group’s 
tions, associations and sports clubs that operate in  activities in the medical-biological and pharmaceuti-
harmony with its values, making financial contribu- cal sectors to the students.
tions and offering them the benefit of its expertise.
SOL is also partner of the Collège des Ingénieurs 
In 2017 the Group took part in Cinema d’Impresa,  Italia (formerly the Scuola di Alta Formazione Man-
a competition organised by Assolombarda aimed at  ageriale) of Turin and supports the Master’s courses 
young film directors from important Italian schools  of some participants, guaranteeing them a six-month 
and universities (ALMED of Cattolica del Sacro Cuore  work experience with a view to eventually being hired 
University, Istituto Europeo di Design, Libera Univer- by the company.
sità di Lingue e Comunicazione, Nuova Accademia 
di Belle Arti, Department of Design of Milan Poly- In Italy, SOL is a sponsor and partner of Progetto 
technic). For the 2017 edition competing directors  SLAncio, a project promoted by the La Meridiana 
shot videos that tried to represent the relationship  Cooperative of Monza, which provides assistance to 
between businesses and the environment, sustaina- those suffering from invalidating neurological and 
bility and the future. neuromuscular illnesses.
The SOL Group is one of the partner companies of the  Vivisol  actively  supports  research  by  financing 
ISTUD Foundation, the first independent business  research fellowships and study grants (for example 
school in Italy that operates in the field of higher  at the University of Catania and the Ospedale degli 
education and management research, with whom it  Infermi of Biella), as well as research programmes 
organised various training activities. In addition, for  (like the research programme on patients subject to 
several years the Group has hosted a training day for  non-invasive ventilation, the study on the develop-
students from the ISTUD “Scientists in the company”  ment and validation of the beliefs about ventilation 
Master’s course, offering the benefit of the experience  questionnaire).