SOL GROUP  –  PEOPLE AND THE COMMUNITY 67
Vivisol supports the Serena Foundation NPO, an  great benefit given that schools often do not have 
association for the protection, assistance and care  any drinking water. 
of people with SLA and other muscular dystrophies; 
the Vivi Down Association NPO, which every day  Still in the Netherlands, SOL supports NGO Stichting 
provides  people  with  Down  Syndrome  and  their  MOS, which provides medical assistance during sports 
families tools to alleviate the difficulties that this  events.
disability involves; and UILDM (Unione Italiana Lotta 
alla Distrofia Muscolare), the national association for  United  Kingdom:  Dolby  Vivisol  supports  various 
those affected by dystrophy and other neuromuscular  associations such as the British Heart Foundation 
diseases. and the BLF – British Lung Foundation. It works with 
the National Health Service to guarantee that the 
In 2017, Vivisol worked with the Centro Nazionale  presence of asbestos in patient homes is communi-
Opere Salesiane, which every year organises the  cated so that technicians can work safely during the 
“Techniques for the maintenance, repair and testing  installation phase.
of diagnostic devices” training course. As part of the 
course, students were able to learn about the reality 
of home care services and visit SOL Welding, the site  ASSOCIATIONS
in Vicenza that manages medical apparatus.
The SOL Group actively participates in the initiatives 
In Bosnia and Herzegovina SOL supported the com- of the main associations of companies in the techni-
munity by helping to meet the needs of an infant school. cal and medical gases, home care and biotechnology 
sectors in Europe and in various European countries.
In Spain Vivisol sponsored the “Running for Health” 
event in Seville and contributed to organising the  Group experts are members of various working groups 
Day for complex chronic patients. Vivisol supports the  in these associations, contributing to the exchange 
“Barcelona Respiratory Network” and the pulmonol- of technical knowledge and the drafting and 
ogy company in Seville. updating of sector standards.
In France Vivisol, France Oxygéne and MBAR sup-
ported organisations for clinical research into respira- International industry associations
tory illnesses. SOL supported Saint Savin rugby club 
and ETP Chimio, an association that supports cancer  SOL Spa and Irish Oxygen are members of IOMA 
patients. (International Oxygen Manufacturers Association), 
which gathers together the world’s leading operators 
In the Netherlands Vivisol supported various sci- in the technical and medical gases sector. The princi-
entific studies and conferences on respiratory med- pal objective of the association is to coordinate the 
icine. These include the “Homerun” scientific study  harmonisation of safety rules so that operational 
which involves the remote monitoring of a sample  practices are the same throughout the world.
of patients receiving pulmonary ventilation in order 
to demonstrate that home treatment is just as safe  SOL  Spa,  SOL  Nederland,  BTG,  SOL  Deutschland, 
as hospital treatment, and costs less. Furthermore,  Irish Oxygen and Vivisol Austria are members of 
for the annual Breathless symposium, Vivisol chose  EIGA (European Industrial Gases Association), which 
a reusable bottle (“Join the Pipe”) as its gadget for  gathers together Europe’s leading operators in the 
participants. For every bottle purchased, the com- technical and medical gases sector.
pany that manufactures them sends one to a child 
in Africa. The children that receive these bottles can  In 2017 the SOL Group further increased its association 
then take water from the village pump to school, a  commitments and today has its own representatives 