68 SOL GROUP  –  PEOPLE AND THE COMMUNITY
in the Board of EIGA, in the four Councils (Stefania  Other associations: Unamec “Association of produc-
Mariani is the Chairman of the MGC), in 14 working  ers, importers and distributors of medical devices” 
groups (12 in 2016) and in 23 ad hoc Groups (14 in  (Belgium); ARTP “Association of Respiratory Tech-
2016), contributing to the definition of standards and  nology  and  Physiology”  (UK);  Unternehmerschaft 
best practices in the sector. Niederrhein (Germany), RCVT “Hydrogen Technology 
Development Centre” (Slovenia).
SOL Spa is a member of the European, Middle 
Eastern & African Society for Biopreservation & 
Biobanking (ESBB). Other associations 
FBN-I - The Family Business Network gathers over 
National industry associations 6,000 companies from 65 countries with the goal 
of helping family businesses to grow, succeed and 
Industrial and chemical and pharmaceutical indus- prosper through the exchange of new ideas and best 
try  associations:  Confindustria,  Assolombarda  and  practices.
Federchimica (Italy), UIC (France), Essenscia, Febeliec 
and Pharma.be (Belgium), Spectaris, VCI and BVMW  AIDAF - Italian Association of Family Businesses, 
(Germany), HACI (Greece), VNCI (The Netherlands),  which brings together Italian family companies that 
UGIR (Romania), CIA (Macedonia). share the guiding values of business ethics, meritoc-
racy, social responsibility and sustainability.
Technical gas industry associations: Assogastecnici 
(Italy), IGV (Germany), ÖIGV (Austria), VFIG (The  Aspen Institute Italia, which promotes and encour-
Netherlands), BIMGA (Belgium), AFGC and APHAR- ages the development of enlightened leadership that 
GAZ (France), HAIMG (Greece), GIZ TP (Slovenia),  is open to dialogue and able to face the challenges of 
BCGA (UK), BIGA (Bulgaria); SIGA (Serbia); AMGIM  a global society.
(Morocco).
ISPI  (Istituto  Studi  di  Politica  Internazionale)  – 
Associations for biotechnology development: Assobi- Institute for International Political Studies, one of 
otec (Italy). the oldest and most prestigious Italian institutions 
specialising in international activities which, among 
Associations of home care sector operators: ÖGP  other things, constitutes a point of reference for 
(Austria); Deutschen Sauerstoff Liga LOT, QVH and  companies and institutions intending to extend their 
BPA (Germany); FHI (The Netherlands); SYNALAM,  range of action abroad, offering materials and ad hoc 
FEDEPSAD  and  FFAIR  (France);  SEDISA  (Spain);  meetings.
PEMFI (Greece). 
Association of suppliers of medical devices to health-
care facilities: Assobiomedica (Italy).