SOL GROUP  –  NOTE ON METHODOLOGY 75
The Sustainability Report has been prepared under  The content of this Report refers to 2017 and, in 
the  “GRI  Sustainability  Reporting  Standards”  particular, the activities carried out by the SOL Group 
established in 2016 by GRI - Global Reporting Initi- during the year, unless otherwise noted. Data relating 
ative, in accordance with the Core option, with refer- to previous years is reported where possible for com-
ence to the information reported in the GRI Content  parative purposes, making it possible to assess longer-
Index, included in this Report. term trends in the Group’s activities. 
The Sustainability Report constitutes the Consolidated  In order to guarantee the reliability of the reported 
non-financial statement and fulfils the requirements  information recourse to estimates was limited as far 
of Articles 3 and 4 of Italian Legislative Decree  as possible. Any eventual estimates are based on 
no. 254/2016, which implements European Directive  the best information available or survey sampling. 
2014/95/EU into Italian law. As established by Art.  Restatements to previously published comparative 
5 of Legislative Decree no. 254/16, this document  data are clearly indicated. 
constitutes a separate report market by a specific 
heading. Where appropriate, the European Commis- The Report was subject to a limited assurance 
sion Guidelines on non-financial reporting were also  engagement according to the criteria set out by the 
taken into account. ISAE 3000 Revised principle. This engagement was car-
ried out by Deloitte & Touche Spa which, at the end of 
The  Sustainability  Report  reporting  scope  the work performed, issued a specific report with regard 
includes all companies consolidated on a line- to the compliance of the information provided in the 
by-line basis by SOL Spa. For environmental data  consolidated non-financial statement prepared by SOL 
and information more details are provided in “The  Group as required by the Legislative Decree 254/2016.
environment” chapter, which explains any eventual 
variations in scope of reporting, which do not limit the  The SOL Group has published an annual Sustainabil-
understanding of the Group’s activities or its impact.  ity Report since 2009.
The reporting scope of the economic and financial 
data and information corresponds to that of the SOL  The Sustainability Report was approved by the 
Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements as at 31  SOL Spa Board of Directors on March 29, 2018.
December 2017.
The Group has envisaged a continuous improve-
The information contained in the Report refers to  ment process with regard to material sustainability 
issues identified as material and the related indi- issues in order to comply in an increasingly virtuous 
cators that reflect the significant economic, envi- way with regulations and best practices in the sec-
ronmental and social impacts of the organisation  tor. More specifically, with regard to the theme of 
or that could substantially influence the evaluations  respecting human rights, in 2006 the Group adopted 
and decisions of the Group’s stakeholders. The mate- a Code of Ethics (updated in 2017) which has specific 
riality analysis, updated in 2017, is of key importance,  provisions on human rights issues. In fact, SOL Group 
acting as a guideline for defining the content to  undertakes to support the protection and defence of 
report, in line with the expectations of stakeholders. human rights according to the principles laid down by 
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948), 
Following the materiality analysis of the issues out- and acknowledges the principles established by the 
lined in Article 3 of Legislative Decree no. 254/2016,  basic Conventions of the ILO (International Labour 
the use of water resources and the emissions of other  Organization). The Code of Ethics applies to everyone 
pollutants  other  than  greenhouse  gases  are  not  who carries out work for the SOL Group (including all 
deemed significant to be reported in this document. employees, interns, agency staff) and administrators 
of SOL Group companies. The Code of Ethics also 