76 SOL GROUP  –  NOTE ON METHODOLOGY
applies to all those who, in various capacities, come  The definition of material aspects for the Group 
in contact with the Group (such as suppliers, partners,  and its stakeholders took account of the analyses 
customers etc.), thus contributing to the achieve- carried out by the Group in past years and involved 
ment of corporate goals, in accordance with the SOL  comparing these material issues with best practices 
Group’s mission. in the sector, also taking account of the expectations 
of stakeholders.
Nevertheless, the Group recognises the importance 
of monitoring the supply chain increasingly closely as  In preparation for the publication of the 2016 Sustain-
this is the area that poses the biggest risks to human  ability Report, in early 2017 the Group carried out an 
rights. It is also committed to paying more attention  analysis process which, following the identification of 
to this issue in order to effectively protect freedom  its stakeholders and possible material issues, involved 
of association and the right to collective bargaining  the direct engagement of a sample of stakeholders 
and to ensure that forced, irregular or child labour is  in order to establish the viewpoints of both external 
banned, also guaranteeing the absence of any form  stakeholders and that of the Organisation. (1)
of employment discrimination.
As well as identifying the material issues to ensure 
that the company’s activities, progress, results and 
IDENTIFICATION OF PRIORITY  impacts are easily understood, the results of the 
STAKEHOLDERS AND MATERIAL  analysis constitute a guide for internal departments, 
ISSUES enabling them to identify areas in which to focus their 
initiatives in order to improve the impact of the SOL 
The SOL Group believes that doing business in a  Group on the environment and on society.
sustainable way means creating value for all those 
involved in the economic, environmental and social  Thanks to a benchmark analysis, in 2017 the Group’s 
spheres. To do this, it is necessary to take account of  material issues were reviewed, also taking account of 
the opinions and expectations of all of its stakehold- the areas and topics listed by Legislative Decree no. 
ers, because it is they who guide the Group’s actions  254/2016. The topics deemed to be material as a 
and push it to improve on a continuous basis. result of these analyses are summarised in the table 
in the next page.
For this reason, we maintain open channels of com-
munication with all those that can influence the   
decisions and actions of the Group and whose actions 
and decisions can be influenced by SOL.
The stakeholders considered important to the SOL 
Group are:
1.  Associations
2.  Environmental associations
3.  Authorities and public bodies
4.  Shareholders, investors and financial institutions
5.  Patients
6.  Customers
7.  The community
8.  Employees
9.  Suppliers and partners
(1) Further details are available in the 2016 SOL Group Sustainability Report.