86 SOL GROUP – GLOSSARY
G L O S S A R Y
Accident: a chance event that could lead to  EMAS (Eco-Management and Audit Scheme):  ISO 13485 standard (Medical devices 
injury or material damage. European Community regulation 761/2001.  – quality management systems): an 
A voluntary instrument for implementing  international standard that aims to maximise 
Air separation: process of separating out the  Community Environmental Policy aimed  the probability that organisations operating 
gases contained in air by distillation, producing  at continually improving environmental  in the medical devices sector satisfy the legal 
both liquid and gaseous products. performance of the companies and businesses  requirements existing at world level on quality 
adopting it. management, and so supply safe and effective 
Audit: A systematic, independent and  medical devices.
documented process for objectively evaluating  Food safety: the concept that food must 
to what extent the management criteria of  not cause harm to consumers if prepared in  ISO 14001 standard (Environmental 
reference have been satisfied. accordance with its intended use. Management): an international standard that 
lays down the requisites for an environmental 
BS OHSAS 18001: an international standard  Frequency index: ratio between the number  management system. It allows organisations 
issued by the British Standards Institute that  of accidents and hours worked multiplied by 1  to be aware of that and keep under control 
establishes the requirements of a health  million. It measures the frequency of accident  activities that have significant environmental 
and safety management system. It allows  occurrence. impact, and improve their environmental 
organisations to be aware of and keep under  performance.
control risks deriving from operations in normal  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): a multi-
and extraordinary conditions and to improve  stakeholder network instituted in 1997 and  ISO 22000 standard (Food Safety 
safety performance. made up of companies, NGOs, associations of  Management Systems): an international 
accountancy experts, business organisations  standard that defines the requirements for a 
Cold converter: container with insulated  and other international stakeholders involved  food safety and hygiene management system.
vacuum chamber for highly refrigerated  in subjects relating to Corporate Social 
cryogenic gases, complete with interception,  Responsibility. GRI’s mission is to develop, supply  ISO 27001 standard (Information security): 
measuring and safety instruments. and promote global reference guidelines for  an international standard that defines the 
the drawing up of Sustainability Reports that  requirements for setting up and running an 
Conditioning: a production operation that  describe the economic, environmental and social  information security management system 
consists in taking gas from a secondary storage  impacts that companies or organisations cause  (logical, physical and organisational security), 
tank and compressing it in a gaseous or liquid  with their activities. with the aim of protecting data and information 
state and transferring it to mobile containers.  from threats of all kinds, ensuring the integrity, 
Conditioning also includes the sequence of  Injury: undesired event in the workplace that  confidentiality and availability.
operations carried out on the containers from  provokes bodily damage or objectively verifiable 
when they arrive at the centre to storage of full  illness. ISO 50001 standard (Energy Management): 
containers ready for delivery. an international standard aimed at helping 
IPPC (Integrated Pollution Prevention and  organisations improve their energy performance, 
Cylinder basket: steel structure containing  Control): Strategy instituted with Directive  increasing energy efficiency and reducing climate 
a number of cylinders, normally 8 or 16, in a  2010/75/EU "Industrial Emission Directive  and environmental impact.
vertical position to facilitate their handling with  (I.E.D.) for minimising the pollution caused by 
normal forklift trucks. various sources throughout the EU. All types of  Major accident: event such as a serious spill, fire 
installation listed in Appendix 1 of the Directive  or explosion due to uncontrolled developments 
Cylinder bundle: set of interconnected cylinders  must obtain integrated authorisation from  in activities in the presence of dangerous 
supported by a metal structure. The outlets of  the authorities of the various countries. It is  substances, that could cause grave danger for 
the cylinders are led to a single manifold. based on the premise that the failure to adopt  human health or the environment.
a common approach for controlling emissions 
Cylinder: container in steel or light alloy for  into air, water and terrain could lead not to a 
compressed, liquefied or dissolved gases. reduction of pollution but to its transfer from one 
compartment to another.