SOL GROUP – GLOSSARY 87
Medical device (MD): any instrument,  Raw materials – primary process units:  Secondary storage: liquefied cryogenic gas 
apparatus, equipment, machine, device, plant,  atmospheric air, for the production of oxygen,  container filled by tankers, normally installed in 
reagent in vitro or for calibration, computer  nitrogen and argon; natural gas, for the  secondary process units.
software, material or other similar or related  production of hydrogen and carbon dioxide;  Severity index: ratio between days of absence 
product for use, alone or in culmination, on  calcium carbide for the production of acetylene;  due to injury and hours worked multiplied by 1 
persons for one or more specific purposes  ammonium nitrate for the production of nitrous  million. It measures the severity of injuries.
of diagnosis, prevention, control, therapy or  oxide.
attenuation of an illness; for diagnosis, control,  Seveso Directive (2012/18/EU and later 
therapy, attenuation or compensation of a  REACh: EC regulation n. 1907/2006  modifications): European regulation aimed 
wound or handicap; for studying, substituting  (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and  at preventing and controlling the risk of serious 
or modifying anatomy or a physiological  Restriction of Chemicals). Its main aim is to  accidents. It governs industrial activities that 
process; for intervening on conception where  improve the awareness of the dangers and risks  involve the stocking and/or use of certain 
the main desired action in or on the human  deriving from chemical substances, aiming to  quantities of dangerous substances.
body is not carried out with pharmacological or  attain a high level of protection of human health 
immunological means or through metabolism,  and the environment. Stakeholder: all categories of subjects, private 
but whose function can be aided by these means. or public, individual or collective, internal or 
Residual mix: refers to the average primary  external, that can influence the success of 
Medical gas: any medication consisting of one  energy sources that were not intended for  a business or whose interests are involved 
or more active gaseous substances that may or  a specific entity or to an end consumer. If a  in business decisions: customers, suppliers, 
may not be mixed with excipient gases.  consumer uses the power grid without having  investors, local communities, employees, unions, 
purchased a GO certificate, he then has to use  public administration, future generations etc.
Mobile container: container for compressed,  the residual mix in the calculation of its footprint. 
liquid, dissolved and cryogenic gases used for  The Residual mix is calculated for each year and  Steam reforming: process in which methane 
transporting products. Mobile containers are:  country by organizations that are part of the  reacts with steam, in the presence of a catalyst, 
cylinders, drums, gas cylinders, cylinder bundles,  European E-Track programme, such as RE-DISS. to produce hydrogen and CO.
2
dewars, base units and portable units.
Responsible Care: a voluntary program of  Sustainability (see Sustainable development)
Policy (quality, safety, environment): general  the world chemical industry based on the 
principles and guidelines of an organisation,  implementation of principles and conduct  Sustainable development: development that 
formerly expressed by top management. concerning the safety and health of employees  can satisfy current economic, environmental and 
and environmental protection, and the  social needs, without compromising the chances 
Primary process units: units where gases are  commitment to communicate the results  of future generations being able to satisfy theirs.
produced from raw materials. obtained aiming for continual, significant and 
tangible improvement.
Primary storage: liquefied cryogenic gas 
container filled directly by the production plant. Sale equipment: technical/technological 
Quality, safety and environmental management  equipment purchased from third parties and 
system. supplied for use to customers as part of a service, 
but destined to remain the property of SOL; for 
Quality, Safety and Environment  example mobile containers, cold converters etc.
Management System (SHEQ/MS): that 
part of the general management system that  Secondary process units: units where gases 
includes the organisational structure, planning,  are conditioned, normally using gases coming 
responsibilities, procedures, processes and  from primary process units, into their physical 
resources for drawing up, implementing and  form (which may be compressed gas or 
maintaining active well-defined quality, safety  cryogenic liquid) in the containers (cylinders, 
and/or environmental policies. cylinder bundles, drums or tanks) best suited 
for distribution to end users. Some units also 
produce pure and high purity gas mixtures.