Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 99  
C. Solvency Position 
Solvency Capital Requirement 
The preliminary6 Solvency Ratio as at 31 December 2018 
Coverage  is equal to 216%. The increase of 9 pps in respect to 
previous year is mainly attributable to the significant con-
Risk and capital management are closely integrated pro- tribution of the normalised capital generation and to the 
cesses aimed at managing the Group’s solvency position  regulatory model changes and merger & acquisition dis-
and the Group’s risk profile.  posal operations of the period, that exceed the negative 
economic variance deriving from financial markets and 
The  solvency  position  is  defined  as  the  ratio  be- the foreseeable dividend of the year.
tween Group Own Funds (GOF) and Solvency Capital 
Requirement (SCR). SCR and Minimum Consolidated Group SCR (MCR) data 
hereby reported are based on a preliminary estimate. 
SCR coverage 
(€ million) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017
GOF 44,146 45,880
SCR 20,479 22,191
Solvency Ratio 216% 207%
Preliminary figures for 2018, official figures for 2017
1. Group Own Funds  – plus subordinated debt eligible in Basic Own Funds;
– less foreseeable dividends;
Group Own Funds are calculated as the sum of consol- – plus additional Own Funds related to unrealised capital 
idated Basic Own Funds related to insurance undertak- gains from French pension activities arising from the 
ings and other entities not subject to other solvency sec- application of the IORP7 transitory regime8;
toral rules and Own Funds attributable to non-insurance  – less deductions for participations in sectoral entities;
entities, defined according to their sectoral regulatory  – less deductions for regulatory filters applied to non-avail-
regimes. able items at Group level, restricted Own Funds items 
and shares of the parent company.
Basic Own Funds are calculated as the sum of:
– the excess of assets over liabilities following Solvency 
II valuation;
6  On the basis of IVASS Provvedimento n. 53, 2016, the SCR and MCR calculations to be disclosed in the Annual Report can rely on a preliminary estimate. More details on the 
Solvency Ratio will be disclosed in the Solvency and Financial Condition Report.
7  IORP stands for Institutions for Occupational Retirement Provisions.
8  These additional Own Funds are authorised by Supervisor for the years between 2016 and 2022, a period during which the proportion of the eligible unrealised capital gains will 
decrease gradually.