104 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
2. Group PIM Governance  3. Group PIM Validation 
Governance and processes regarding the Group PIM are  The Group PIM is subject to independent validation on 
defined in the Group Internal Model Governance Policy,  an ongoing basis, which aims to gain assurance of the 
ensuring that: completeness, robustness and reliability of the processes 
– models and components are appropriate for their pur- and results of the Group PIM as well as their compliance 
pose; with the Solvency II regulatory requirements. 
– procedures are in place to design, implement, use and 
validate new models and model changes; The validation process follows the principles and proce-
– the appropriateness of models on an ongoing basis is  dures defined within the Group Internal Model Validation 
verified. Policy and related guidelines.
To rule the activities related to the Internal Model devel- In particular, the validation outputs are designed to sup-
opments necessary to ensure its appropriateness over  port Senior Management and AMSB in understanding 
time and, more in general, to support the Internal Model  the appropriateness of the Group PIM, including areas 
change process, the Group Internal Model Change Policy  of weaknesses and limitations, especially with regards to 
has been also defined with the aim to specify roles and  its use.
responsibilities in the implementation of major and minor 
changes. To ensure an adequate level of independence, the re-
sources performing the validation activities are not in-
A dedicated committee, the Internal Model Committee,  volved in the development and operation of the Group 
has been established to approve Group PIM calibrations,  PIM.
to support the Group Chief Risk Officer (GCRO) in the 
decision-making process on Group PIM developments  Within the validation process also results obtained dur-
or model changes and to control the full model lifecy- ing previous validation cycles are taken into account, as 
cle, assuring proper compliance with the Group Internal  well as developments within internal and external busi-
Model Governance Policy. This Committee is chaired by  ness environment, financial market trends and Group PIM 
the Model Design Authority, responsible for ensuring the  changes. The Internal Model validation process excludes 
overall consistency and reliability of the Group PIM.  those aspects covered by the assurance work of the 
Actuarial Function (i.e. technical provisions and related IT 
The GCRO defines the processes and controls to ensure  systems, actuarial platforms and their governance).
the ongoing appropriateness of the design and oper-
ations of the Group PIM, so that it continues to appro- Furthermore, the validation procedures also serve as an 
priately reflect the Group risk profile. The GCRO is also  incentive mechanism to ensure timely and accurate in-
responsible for defining the methodology of each mod- corporation of modelling refinements. 
el component, on the basis of the Group Internal Model 
Committee’s proposals, as well as for the results produc- In order to warrant the appropriateness of the array of 
tion and ultimately for submitting the relevant Internal  elements contained within the Group PIM, the validation 
Model supporting documentation to the AMSB. covers both the quantitative and qualitative aspects of 
the Internal Model, and is therefore not limited to the cal-
The AMSB, assisted by the Risk and Control Committee,  culation engine and methodology. Other important items 
ensures the ongoing appropriateness of the design and  such as data quality, documentation and uses of the 
operations, the ongoing compliance of the Group PIM  Model are validated accordingly.
and also that the Group PIM continues to appropriately 
reflect the risk profile of the Group.  The validation process is carried out on regular annu-
al basis and when requested by the AMSB or Senior 
These roles are generally mirrored within the organization- Management (e.g. in case of PIM changes).
al structure of each Group Legal Entity within PIM scope. 
No material changes have occurred during the period 
with reference to the PIM governance.