Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 105  
D. Risk Profile 
tainty of pricing and provisioning assumptions related 
to extreme or irregular events;
Life Underwriting Risk 
– longevity risk that, similarly to mortality, is defined as 
the risk resulting from changes in mortality rates, where 
Life and health underwriting risks derive from the Group’s  a decrease in mortality rates leads to an increase in the 
core insurance business in the life and health segment.  value of insurance liabilities;
The major part of the business and the related risks derive  – disability and morbidity risks derive from changes in 
from direct portfolio underwritten by the Group. Health  the disability, sickness, morbidity and recovery rates;
business represents a minor component of the portfolio. – lapse risk is linked to the loss or adverse change in lia-
bilities due to a change in the expected exercise rates 
Details on insurance and investment contracts in the Notes   of policyholder options. The relevant options are all le-
for Group’s life underwriting business key figures
gal or contractual policyholder rights to fully or partly 
terminate, surrender, decrease, restrict or suspend in-
The life portfolio is given by traditional business, which  surance cover or permit the insurance policy to lapse. 
mainly  includes  insurance  with  profit  participation,  Mass lapse events are also considered;
and  unit-linked  products.  The  prevailing  component  – expense risk results from changes in the expenses in-
of traditional savings business includes products with  curred in servicing insurance or reinsurance contracts;
insurance coverages linked to the policyholders’ life  – health risk results from changes in health claims and 
and health. It also includes pure risk covers, with re- also includes catastrophe risk (for PIM entities). 
lated mortality risk, and some annuity portfolios, with 
the presence of longevity risk. The vast majority of the  In addition to the risks above, the Group Risk Map in-
insurance coverages include legal or contractual pol- cludes also the going concern reserve risk, a German 
icyholder rights to fully or partly terminate, surrender,  business specific risk that refers to mis-estimation of new 
decrease, restrict or suspend insurance cover or per- business assumptions.
mit the insurance policy to lapse, or to fully or partially 
establish, renew, increase, extend or resume the insur- The approach underlying the life underwriting risk meas-
ance or reinsurance cover. For this reason, the products  urement is based on the calculation of the loss resulting 
are subject to lapse risk. from unexpected changes in biometric and/or operating 
assumptions. Capital requirements for life underwriting 
Life underwriting risks can be distinguished in biometric  risks are calculated on the basis of the difference be-
and operating risks embedded in the life and health in- tween the insurance liabilities before and after the appli-
surance policies. Biometric risks derive from the uncer- cation of the stress.
tainty in the assumptions regarding mortality, longevity, 
health, morbidity and disability rates taken into account  Life underwriting risks are measured by means of the 
in the insurance liability valuations. Operating risks derive  Group PIM13.
from the uncertainty regarding the amount of expenses 
and the adverse exercise of contractual options by pol- The SCR for life underwriting risk amounts to € 3,437 
icyholders. Policy lapse is the main contractual option  million before diversification (equal to 11% of total SCR 
held by the policyholders, together with the possibility  before diversification). This is mainly given by expense14  
to reduce, suspend or partially surrender the insurance  risk, followed by lapse and longevity risks. In terms of 
coverage. contribution to the risk profile, it is to be noted that life 
underwriting risks are well diversified with other risk cate-
Life and health underwriting risks are: gories. The overall contribution to the risk profile therefore 
– mortality risk, defined as the risk of loss, or of adverse  remains limited.
change in the value of insurance liabilities, resulting 
from changes in mortality rates, where an increase in  Life underwriting risk management is based on two main 
mortality rates leads to an increase in the value of in- processes:
surance liabilities. Mortality risk also includes mortality  – accurate pricing;
catastrophe risk, resulting from the significant uncer- – ex-ante selection of risks through underwriting.
13 For the scope of the Group PIM please refer to section A. Executive Summary. Entities not included in the Group PIM scope calculate the capital requirement based on standard 
formula.
14 Including also the Going Concern reserve. 