106 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
Product pricing consists in setting product features and  riders, which are most exposed to moral hazard, maxi-
assumptions regarding biometric, policyholders’ behav- mum insurability levels are also set, lower than those ap-
iour, financial and expenses assumptions to allow the  plied for death covers. In order to mitigate these risks, 
Group Legal Entities to withstand any adverse develop- policy exclusions are also defined.
ment in the realization of these assumptions.
Regular risk exposure monitoring and adherence to the 
For savings business, this is mainly achieved through  operative limits, reporting and escalation processes are 
profit testing, while for protection business with a biom- also in place, allowing for potential remediation actions 
etric component, it is achieved by setting prudent as- to be undertaken.
sumptions.
Finally, reinsurance represents the main risk mitigating 
Lapse risk, related to voluntary withdrawal from the con- technique. The Parent Company acts as core reinsurer for 
tract, and expense risk, related to the uncertainty around  the Group Legal Entities and cedes part of the business 
the expenses that the Group expects to incur in the fu- to external reinsurers.
ture, are evaluated in a prudential manner in the pricing of 
new products. This evaluation is taken into account in the  The definition of a reinsurance arrangement is based on 
construction and profit testing of a new tariff, consider- the process managed by Reinsurance Function in con-
ing the underlying assumptions derived from the Group’s  stant interaction with Risk Management and Actuarial 
experience. Functions.
For insurance portfolios with a biometric risk component, 
Non-Life Underwriting Risk 
comprehensive reviews of the mortality experience are 
compared with expected mortality of the portfolio, deter-
mined according to the most up-to-date mortality tables  Non-life underwriting risks arise from the Group’s insur-
available in each market. To this end, mortality by sex,  ance business in the P&C segment. 
age, policy year, sum assured and other underwriting 
criteria are taken into consideration to ensure mortality  Property&Casualty segment in the Management Report for 
volumes of premiums and related geographic breakdown
assumptions remain adequate and avoid the risk of mis-
estimating for the next underwriting years.
Details on insurance and investment contracts in the Notes for 
technical provisions
The same annual assessment of the adequacy of the mor-
tality tables used in the pricing is performed for longevity 
risk. In this case, not only biometric risks are considered  Non-life underwriting risks include the risk of underesti-
but also the financial risks related to the minimum interest  mating the frequency and/or severity of the claims in de-
rate guarantee and any potential mismatch between the  fining pricing and reserves (respectively pricing risk and 
liabilities and the corresponding assets.  reserving risk), the risk of losses arising from extreme 
or exceptional events (catastrophe risk) and the risk of 
As part of the underwriting process, Generali Group  policyholder lapses from P&C insurance contracts. In 
adopts  underwriting  guidelines.  Risk  Management  particular:
Function reviews implications of new lines of business/ – pricing and catastrophe risks derive from the possibility 
products on the Group risk profile.  that premiums are not sufficient to cover future claims, 
also in connection with extremely volatile events and 
Moreover, a particular emphasis is placed on the under- contract expenses; 
writing of new contracts with reference to medical, finan- – reserving risk relates to the uncertainty of the claims 
cial and moral hazard risks. The Group has defined clear  reserves (in a one-year time horizon);
underwriting standards through manuals, forms, medical  – lapse risk arises from the uncertainty of the underwrit-
and financial underwriting requirements. For insurance  ing profits recognised in the premium provisions.