Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 107  
Non-life underwriting risks are measured by means of the  Additional indicators such as relevant exposures, risk 
Group PIM15. For the majority of risks assessed through  concentration and risk capital figures are used for the 
the PIM, the assessments are based on in-house devel- purpose of P&C underwriting risk monitoring. The indi-
oped models and external models that are primarily used  cators are calculated on a quarterly basis to ensure align-
to assess the catastrophic events, for which broad mar- ment with the Group RAF.
ket experience is considered beneficial.
Reinsurance is the key mitigating technique for balanc-
The SCR for non-life underwriting risk amounts to € 4,071  ing the P&C portfolio. It aims to optimize the use of risk 
million before diversification (equal to 13% of total SCR  capital by ceding part of the underwriting risk to select-
before diversification). This is mainly given by reserve and  ed counterparties, whilst simultaneously minimizing the 
pricing risks, followed by CAT risk. Non-life lapse risk  credit risk associated with such operations.
contributes only for a marginal amount to the risk profile.
The P&C Group Reinsurance Strategy is developed con-
Moreover, the Group uses additional indicators for risk  sistently with the risk appetite and the risk preferences 
concentrations. This is specifically the case for catastro- defined in the Group RAF on the one side and taking into 
phe risks and commercial risks, which are both coordi- account the reinsurance market on the other one. 
nated at central level as they generally represent a key 
source of concentration. The Group has historically preferred traditional reinsur-
ance as a tool for mitigating catastrophe risk resulting 
In terms of CAT risk, the Group’s largest exposures are  from its P&C portfolio, adopting a centralized approach 
earthquakes  in  Italy,  European  floods  and  European  where the placement of reinsurance towards the market is 
windstorms. Less material catastrophe risks are also  managed through a central Group Reinsurance Function.
taken into account and assessed by means of additional 
scenario analysis. Generali aims at diversifying its cessions to reinsurers to 
avoid excessive concentrations, to optimize its reinsur-
At the same time, there is a constant on-going improve- ance purchases, including from a pricing perspective, 
ment to consider risk metrics within profitability metrics  and to continuously develop know-how in the most in-
and to use risk adjusted KPIs in decision making pro- novative risk transfer techniques. For this reason, part 
cesses.  of  the  Italian  earthquake,  European  windstorm  and 
European flood exposures were carved out from the tra-
Based on the Group RAF, P&C risk selection starts with  ditional catastrophe reinsurance program and placed in 
an overall proposal in terms of underwriting strategy and  the Insurance Linked Securities (ILS) market. This inno-
corresponding  business  selection  criteria.  During  the  vative issuance was completed successfully and at com-
strategic planning process, targets are established and  petitive terms.
translated into underwriting limits to ensure business is 
underwritten according to the Plan. Underwriting limits  Alternative risk transfer solutions are continuously ana-
define the maximum size of risks and classes of business  lysed and implemented. As an example, in addition to tra-
that Group Legal Entities shall be allowed to write with- ditional reinsurance, a protection is in place to reduce the 
out seeking any additional or prior approval. The limits  impact of an unexpectedly high Loss Ratio for the Group 
may be set based on value, risk type, product exposure  Motor liability portfolio. Such transfer represents a par-
or class of occupancy. The purpose of these limits is to  tial transfer of pricing risk to the special purpose vehicle 
attain a coherent and profitable book of business found- named Horse.
ed on the expertise of each Legal Entity.
15 For the scope of the Group PIM please refer to section A. Executive Summary. Entities not included in the Group PIM scope calculate the capital requirement based on standard 
formula.