108 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
Financial Risk and Credit Risk 
the risk appetite of the Group over the business planning 
period. 
The Group invests collected premiums in a wide variety 
of financial assets, with the purpose of honouring future  The assets’ selection is performed by taking into consid-
obligations to policyholders and generating value for its  eration the risk profile of the liabilities held in order to sat-
shareholders.  isfy the need to have appropriate and sufficient assets to 
cover the liabilities. This selection process aims to guar-
As a result, the Group is exposed to the financial risks  antee the security, quality, profitability and liquidity of the 
driven by either: overall portfolio, providing an adequate diversification of 
– invested assets not performing as expected because  the investments.
of falling or volatile market prices;
– reinvested proceeds of existing assets being exposed  The asset portfolio is then invested and rebalanced ac-
to unfavourable market conditions, such as lower in- cording to the asset class and duration weights. The main 
terest rates. risk mitigation techniques used by the Group are liabili-
ty-driven management of the assets and regular use of 
Generali Group traditional life savings business is long- rebalancing. 
term in nature; therefore, the Group holds mostly long-
term investments which have the ability to withstand  The liability driven investment helps granting a compre-
short-term decreases and fluctuations in the market value  hensive management of assets whilst taking into account 
of assets. the liability structure; while, at the same time, the regular 
rebalancing redefines target weights for the different as-
Nonetheless, the Group manages its investments in a  set classes and durations, alongside the related tolerance 
prudent way according to the so-called “Prudent Person  ranges defined as investment limits. This technique con-
Principle”16, and strives to optimize the return of its assets  tributes to an appropriate mitigation of financial risks. 
while minimizing the negative impact of short-term mar-
ket fluctuations on its solvency position.  ALM&SAA activities aim at ensuring the Group holds suf-
ficient and adequate assets to reach defined targets and 
Under Solvency II, the Group is also required to hold a  meet liability obligations. For this purpose, analyses of 
capital buffer, with the purpose of maintaining a sound  the asset-liability relationship under a range of market 
solvency position even in the circumstances of adverse  scenarios and expected/stressed investment conditions 
market movements. are undertaken. 
To ensure a comprehensive management of the impact  The Group works to ensure a close interaction between 
of financial and credit risks on assets and liabilities, the  the Investment, Finance (incl. Treasury), Actuarial and 
Group Strategic Asset Allocation (SAA) process needs  Risk Management Functions to secure that the ALM&SAA 
to be liability-driven and strongly interdependent with in- process remains consistent with the Group Risk Appetite 
surance-specific targets and constraints. For this reason,  Framework (RAF), the strategic planning and the capital 
the Group has integrated the Strategic Asset Allocation  allocation mechanisms. The annual SAA proposal:
(SAA) and the Asset Liability Management (ALM) within  – defines target exposure and limits for each relevant as-
the same process.  set class, in terms of minimum and maximum exposure 
allowed; 
The aim of the SAA&ALM process is to define the most  – embeds the asset and liabilities duration mismatches 
efficient combination of asset classes which, according  permitted and potential mitigation actions that can be 
to the Prudent Person Principle, maximizes the invest- enabled on the investment side.
ment contribution to value creation, taking into account 
solvency, actuarial and accounting indicators. The aim  Regarding specific asset classes such as (i) private equity, 
is not just to mitigate risks but also to define an optimal  (ii) alternative fixed income, (iii) hedge funds, (iv) deriva-
risk-return profile that satisfies both the return target and  tives and structured products, the Group has mainly cen-
16 The “Prudent Person Principle” set out in Article 132 of Directive 2009/138/EC requires the company to only invest in assets and instruments whose risks can be identified, 
measured, monitored, controlled and reported as well as taken into account in the company overall solvency needs. The adoption of this principle is ruled in the Group 
Investment Governance Policy (GIGP).