Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 109  
tralized their management and monitoring. These kinds  – equity risk deriving from the risk of adverse changes in 
of investments are subject to accurate due diligence in  the market value of the assets or in the value of liabili-
order to assess their quality, the level of risk related to the  ties due to changes in the level of equity market prices 
investment and its consistency with the approved liabili- which can lead to financial losses; 
ty-driven SAA. – equity volatility risk deriving from changes in the vola-
tility of equity markets. Exposure to equity volatility is 
The Group also uses derivatives with the aim of mitigat- typically related to equity option contracts or to insur-
ing the risk present in the asset and/or liability portfolios.  ance products sold with embedded guarantees whose 
The derivatives help the Group to improve the quality,  market consistent value is sensitive to the level of eq-
liquidity and profitability of the portfolio, according to the  uity volatility;
business planning targets. Operations in derivatives are  – interest rate risk, defined as the risk of adverse chang-
likewise subject to a regular monitoring and reporting  es in the market value of the assets or in the value of 
process. liabilities due to changes in the level of interest rates 
in the market. The Group is mostly exposed to down-
In addition to the risk tolerance limits set on the Group  ward changes in interest rates as lower interest rates 
solvency  position  within  the  Group  RAF,  the  current  increase the present value of the promises made to 
Group risk monitoring process is also integrated by the  policyholders more than the value of the assets back-
application of the Group Investments Risk Guidelines  ing those promises. As a result, it may become in-
(GIRG). The GIRG include general principles, quantitative  creasingly costly for the Group to maintain its promis-
risk limits (with a strong focus on credit and market con- es, thereby leading to financial losses. Linked to that, 
centration), authorization processes and prohibitions that  interest rate volatility risk derives from changes in the 
Group entities need to comply with. level of interest rate implied volatilities. This comes, for 
example, from insurance products sold with embed-
ded minimum interest rate guarantees whose market 
Financial Risk  consistent value is sensitive to the level of interest 
rates volatility;
Within the life business, the Group assumes a consider- – property risk deriving from changes in the level of prop-
able financial risk when it guarantees policyholders with  erty market prices. Exposure to property risk arises 
a minimum return on the accumulated capital over a,  from property asset positions;
potentially, long period. Should the yields generated by  – currency risk deriving from adverse changes in ex-
the financial investments be lower than the guaranteed  change rates;
return, then the Group shall compensate the shortfall for  – concentration risk deriving from asset portfolio con-
those contractual guarantees. In addition, independently  centration to a small number of counterparties.
on the achieved asset returns, the Group has to secure 
that the value of the financial investments backing the in- Investments in the Notes for further details on the Group’s key 
figures and financial assets
surance contracts remains sufficient to meet the value of 
its obligations.
Financial risks are measured by means of the Group 
Unit-linked business typically does not represent a source  PIM17. In particular, losses are modelled as follows:
of direct financial risk for insurers (except when there are  – equity risk is modelled by associating each equity ex-
guarantees embedded in the contracts), although market  posure to a market index representative of its industrial 
fluctuations typically have profitability implications.  sector and/or geography. Potential changes in market 
value of the equities are then estimated based on past 
Regarding P&C business, the Group has to ensure that  shocks observed for the selected indices;
the benefits can be paid on a timely basis when claims  – equity volatility risk models the impact that changes in 
occur.  the equity implied volatility can have on the market val-
ues of derivatives;
In more detail, the Group is exposed to the following ge- – interest rate risk models the changes in the term struc-
neric financial risk types:  ture of the interest rates for various currencies and the 
17 For the scope of the Group PIM please refer to section A. Executive Summary. Entities not included in the Group PIM scope calculate the capital requirement based on standard 
formula.