110 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
impact of these changes on any interest rate sensitive  Credit risks are measured by means of the Group PIM18. 
asset and also on the value of future liability cash-flows  In particular:
alike; – credit spread risk models the possible movement of 
– interest rate volatility risk models the impact that the  the credit spread levels for bond exposures of differ-
variability in interest rate curves can have on both the  ent rating, industrial sector and geography based on 
market value of derivatives and the value of liabilities  the historical analysis of a set of representative bond 
sensitive to interest rate volatility assumptions (such as  indices. Spread-sensitive assets held by the Group are 
minimum pension guarantees); associated with specific indices based on the charac-
– property risk models the returns on a selection of pub- teristics of their issuer and currency;
lished property investment indices and the associated  – default risk models the impact of default of bond is-
impact on the value of the Group’s property assets.  suers or counterparties to derivatives, reinsurance and 
These are mapped to various indices based on proper- other transactions on the value of the Group’s assets. 
ty location and type of use; Distinct modelling approaches have been implemented 
– for currency risk, the plausible movements in exchange  to model default risk for the bond portfolio (i.e. cred-
rate of the reporting currency of the Group in respect  it default risk) and the risk arising from the default of 
to foreign currencies are modelled, as well as the con- counterparties in cash deposits, risk mitigation con-
sequent impact on the value of asset holdings not de- tracts (such as reinsurance), and other types of expo-
nominated in the domestic currency; sures (i.e. counterparty default risk).
– for concentration risk the extent of additional risk borne 
by the Group due to insufficient diversification in its eq- The Group PIM’s credit risk model evaluates spread risk 
uity, property and bond portfolios is assessed.  and default risk also for sovereign bond exposures. This 
approach is more prudent than the standard formula, 
The SCR for financial risk amounts to € 13,437 million  which treats bonds issued by EU Central Governments 
before diversification (equal to 42% of total SCR before  and denominated in domestic currency as exempt from 
diversification). This is mainly driven by equity risk, fol- credit risk.
lowed by interest rate, property and currency risk. 
The SCR for credit risk amounts to € 8,342 million before 
diversification (equal to 26% of total SCR before diversifi-
Credit Risk  cation). Credit risk is mostly driven by spread risk on fixed 
income securities, while the contribution to SCR of the 
The Group is exposed to credit risks related to invested  counterparty risk (including reinsurance default) remains 
assets and those arising from other counterparties (e.g.  more limited.
cash, reinsurance). 
The credit risk assessment is based on the credit rating 
Credit risks include the following two categories: assigned to counterparties and financial instruments. To 
– spread widening risk, defined as the risk of adverse  limit the reliance on external rating assessments provided 
changes in the market value of debt security assets.  by rating agencies, an internal credit rating assignment 
Spread widening can be linked either to the market’s  framework has been set within the Risk Management 
assessment of the creditworthiness of the specific obli- Group Policy.
gor (often implying also a decrease in rating) or to a 
market-wide systemic reduction in the price of credit  Within this framework additional rating assessments can 
assets;  be performed at counterparty and/or financial instrument 
– default risk, defined as the risk of incurring in losses  level and ratings need to be renewed at least annually. 
because of the inability of a counterparty to honour its  This process applies even where an external rating is 
financial obligations.  available. Moreover, additional assessments shall be per-
formed each time the parties involved in the process pos-
Investments in the Notes for the overall volume of assets   sess any information, coming from reliable sources, that 
subject to credit risk
may affect the creditworthiness of the issuer/issues.
18 For the scope of the Group PIM please refer to section A. Executive Summary. Entities not included in the Group PIM scope calculate the capital requirement based on standard 
formula.