Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 111  
The most important strategy for the mitigation of cred- To further strengthen the risk management system and 
it risk used by the Group is the application of a liabili- in addition to the usual risk owners’ responsibilities, the 
ty-driven SAA, which can limit the impact of the market  Group established specialised units within the first line of 
spread volatility. In addition, the Group is actively mitigat- defence with the scope of dealing with specific threats 
ing counterparty default risk by using a collateralisation  (e.g. cyber risk, fraud, financial reporting risk) and that act 
strategy that strongly alleviates the losses that the Group  as a key partner for the Risk Management Function. 
might suffer as a result of the default of one or more of its 
counterparties. Another benefit from this cooperation is constituted by a 
series of risk management measures triggered across the 
Group as a result of control testing, assessments and the 
Operational Risk 
collection of operational risk events.
Operational risk is the risk of loss arising from inadequate  An example is the creation of a dedicated unit for the man-
or failed internal processes, personnel or systems, or  agement and coordination of the Group-wide IT Security 
from external events. The definition includes the compli- that steers the evolution of the IT security strategy and 
ance risk and financial reporting risk and excludes the  operating model, ensuring a timely detection and fixing 
strategic and reputational risks. of the vulnerabilities that may affect the business. This 
initiative helps the Group to better cope with the growing 
Although ultimate responsibility for managing the risk  threat represented by cyber risk.
sits in the first line, the so-called risk owners, the Risk 
Management Function with its methodologies and pro- The SCR for operational risk amounts to € 2,216 million 
cesses ensures an early identification of the most se- before diversification (equal to 7% of total SCR before 
vere threats across the Group. In doing so, it provides  diversification). The SCR for operational risk is calculated 
management at all levels with a holistic view of the broad  based on standard formula.
operational risk spectrum that is essential for prioritizing 
actions and allocating resources in most risk related crit-
Other Material Risks 
ical areas.
The target is achieved by adopting methodologies and 
tools in line with industry best practices and by establish- Liquidity Risk 
ing a strong dialogue with the first line of defence.
Liquidity risk is defined as the uncertainty, emanating 
Furthermore, since 2015, the Group has been exchang- from business operations, investment or financing activi-
ing operational risk data, properly anonymized, through  ties, over the ability of the Group and its Legal Entities to 
the “Operational Risk data eXchange Association (ORX)”,  meet payment obligations in a full and timely manner, in a 
a  global  association  of  operational  risk  practitioners  current or stressed environment. 
where main industry players also participate. The aim 
is to use the data to improve the risk management and  The Group is exposed to liquidity risk from its insurance 
to anticipate emerging trends. In addition, since losses  operating activity, due to the potential mismatches be-
are collected by the first line, the process contributes to  tween the cash inflows and the cash outflows deriving 
create awareness among the risk owners upon risks that  from the business. 
actually impact the Group. In this sense, a primary role is 
played by Group-wide forward-looking assessments that  Liquidity risk can also stem from investing activity, due to 
aim to estimate the evolution of the operational risk expo- potential liquidity gaps deriving from the management of 
sure in a given time horizon, supporting in the anticipation  the asset portfolio as well as from a potentially insufficient 
of potential threats, in the efficient allocation of resources  level of liquidity in case of disposals (e.g. capacity to sell 
and related initiatives. adequate amounts at a fair price and within a reasonable 
timeframe).
Based on the last assessments, the most relevant sce-
narios at Group level are related to cyber-attacks and  Liquidity risk from financing activity is related to the po-
non-compliance risks, with respect to sectorial regulatory  tential difficulties in accessing the primary market of debt 
developments. or in paying excessive financing costs. 