112 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
The Group can be also exposed to liquidity outflows re- cess in case of limit breaches or other liquidity issues.
lated to issued guarantees, commitments, derivative con-
tract margin calls or regulatory constraints. The annual assessment shows a solid liquidity profile for 
Generali Group, without substantial changes compared 
The Group liquidity risk management framework re- to the previous year.
lies on projecting cash obligations and available cash  The principles for liquidity risk management designed at 
resources over defined time horizons, to monitor that  Group level are fully embedded in strategic and business 
available liquid resources are at all times sufficient to  processes, including investments and product develop-
cover cash obligations that will become due in the same  ment. 
horizons. 
Since Generali Group explicitly identifies liquidity risk as 
A set of liquidity risk metrics (liquidity indicators) has  one of the main risks connected with investments, indi-
been defined to monitor the liquidity situation of each  cators as cash flow duration mismatch are embedded in 
Group insurance Legal Entity on a regular basis. All such  the Strategic Asset Allocation process. Investment limits 
metrics are forward-looking, i.e. they are calculated at a  are set to ensure that the share of illiquid assets remains 
future date based on projections of cash flows, assets  within the level that does not impair the Group’s asset 
and liabilities and an assessment of the level of liquidity  liquidity. 
of the asset portfolio. 
The Group has defined in its Life and P&C Underwriting 
The metrics are calculated under both the so-called  Policies the principles to be applied to mitigate the impact 
“base scenario”, in which the values of cash flows, as- on liquidity from surrenders in life business and claims in 
sets and liabilities correspond to those projected ac- non-life business.
cording to each Legal Entity’s Strategic Plan scenario, 
and a set of so-called “stress scenarios”, in which the 
projected cash inflows and outflows, the market price of  Reputational and Emerging Risk 
assets and the amount of technical provisions are calcu-
lated to take into account unlikely but plausible circum- Although not included in the calculation of SCR, the fol-
stances that would adversely impact the liquidity of each  lowing risks are also assessed:
Legal Entity. – reputational  risk  referring  to  potential  losses  aris-
ing from deterioration or a negative perception of the 
Liquidity risk limits have been defined in terms of value of  Group among its customers and other stakeholders;
the above-mentioned liquidity indicators. The limit frame- – emerging risks arising from new trends or evolving 
work is designed to ensure that each Group Legal Entity  risks which are difficult to perceive and quantify, al-
holds a “buffer” of liquidity in excess of the amount re- though typically systemic. These typically refer to tech-
quired to withstand the adverse circumstances described  nological changes (such as big data), environmental 
in the stress scenarios. trends (with a major focus on climate change) and ge-
opolitical developments. For the assessment of these 
Generali has defined a set of metrics to measure liquidity  risks and to raise the awareness on the implications of 
risk at Group level, based on the liquidity metrics calcu- the emerging trends, Risk Management Function en-
lated at Legal Entity level. The Group manages expected  gages with a dedicated network, including specialists 
cash inflows and outflows in order to maintain a sufficient  from business functions (e.g. Insurance, Investment, 
available level of liquid resources to meet its medium-term  Finance, Marketing and Sustainability and Social Re-
needs. The Group metrics are forward-looking and are  sponsibility, given the relevant interrelation with ESG19 
calculated under both the base and stress scenarios. factors). The Group also participates to the Emerging 
Risk Initiative (ERI), a dedicated working group of the 
The Group has established clear governance for liquidity  CRO Forum. Within ERI emerging risks common to the 
risk measurement, management, mitigation and report- insurance industry are discussed and specific studies 
ing, including specific limit setting and the escalation pro- are conducted.
19 ESG stands for Environmental, Social and Governance.