116 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
In 2019, current economic growth trends are expected  In the Life segment, the Group will continue with its strat-
to slow on the whole. In the Eurozone, GDP growth is  egy of rebalancing that portfolio to further strengthen 
expected to decline to 1.0%, from 1.9% in 2018. In any  profitability, with a more efficient capital allocation ap-
event, some critical situations may significantly impact  proach. The Generali brand continues to be consolidated 
this trend: Brexit, renewed tensions concerning the Italian  by simplifying and innovating the range of product solu-
government spread, trade relations between the USA and  tions which will be marketed through the most suitable, 
China and USA tariffs on European cars. In this context,  efficient and modern distribution channels that are in-
we expect the European Central Bank to closely monitor  creasingly based on digital processes. As a result, actions 
inflation to decide when to implement the first rate hike,  dedicated to Life portfolio enhancement are confirmed:
which may take place not earlier than mid-2020. – new business growth based on the selective develop-
In the United States, a slowdown is expected in the  ment of sustainable business lines such as protection 
current phase of expansion, due to the more restrictive  and health, and on capital-light savings and investment 
monetary policy and the elimination of tax stimulus meas- insurance solutions. The development of these lines 
ures. The job market, at full employment, will continue  will aim at offering a wide range of insurance solutions 
to support wage growth. The Federal Reserve indicated  adapted to risk and investment profiles for the benefit 
that it intends to normalise monetary policy toward a less  of both the policyholders and the Group. In particular, 
aggressive stance; a wait-and-see approach associated  for products in the protection and health line, we aim 
with the future trend of economic indicators will prevail,  to offer modular solutions in which traditional risk cov-
and consequently less predictable. erage is combined with substantial service packages 
In the financial markets, long-term rates are expected to  for an even more concrete management and resolution 
rise in the bond segment. Considerable volatility is ex- of the critical issues covered. Amongst the capital-light 
pected in the stock markets this year due to the reduction  products, unit-linked target products are increasingly 
in monetary stimulus, higher bond yields, expectations of  characterized by financial mechanisms that are capa-
lower economic growth and the various external risks  ble of coping with potential market crashes (e.g. selec-
negatively affecting the political and economic scenario.  tion of volatility-controlled funds);
– with regard to in-force business, actions dedicated to 
As regards the insurance sector, in 2019 performance in  strengthening relations with existing customers on the 
the Life segment is expected to be slightly worse than  basis of an updated analysis of current insurance needs;
in 2018, with a lower growth rate in unit-linked prod- – actions on the Life portfolio in general, which will have 
ucts than witnessed in recent years, while traditional  a new important focus on senior customers, a market 
products could arouse renewed interest due to the rate  segment with substantial development potential.
hike. Growth in the P&C segment will continue in major  The Group will follow up on the positive results of the re-
Eurozone countries despite the slight economic slow- balancing of the business mix while emphasizing the fo-
down forecast. cus on market positioning in terms of premiums. Premium 
Again in 2018 the international insurance market record- trends will continue to reflect a careful underwriting poli-
ed a certain frequency of considerable natural catastro- cy, in line with the common Group goals that are driven by 
phe claims which concerned the reinsurance segment to  a focus on the central importance of customers’ interest, 
a significant extent, particularly in the second half of the  as well as the value of the products and the risk appetite 
year: hurricanes in the USA-Caribbean area, typhoons  framework.
in Asia and the devastating forest fires in California. The 
reinsurance segment demonstrated its ability to absorb  In the P&C segment, premiums are forecasted to improve 
this new wave of claims, recording, although selective- in the primary geographical areas of operation of the 
ly and linked to the results achieved, growth in the ret- Generali Group, with a significant focus on high growth 
rocession market. The Group was able to benefit from  potential markets.
favourable conditions due to its centralized reinsurance  The motor business will basically remain stable, although 
structure which allows for greater control over risk reten- impacted by strong competitive pressure due to the 
tion levels and good diversification in reinsurer portfoli- digital transformation, with possible impacts from the 
os. There were minimal increases or there will be in 2019  business perspective on both volumes and profits. The 
only on agreements with a higher claims frequency, as  Generali’s aim is to continue to develop innovative insur-
well as a higher corporate risk reinsurance cost, although  ance solutions while maintaining its leadership in the tele-
against broader coverage aimed at better controlling re- matics market and guaranteeing growth in this business 
sult volatility. line’s profitability. 