Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 117  
In line with the profitable growth and customer centric- The Group investments policy will continue to be based 
ity set in the strategy, non-motor development will con- on an asset allocation strategy aimed at consolidating 
centrate on modular products designed to meet specific  current returns and ensuring consistency with liabilities 
needs and any new customer needs, providing innovative  to the policyholders.
services, prevention and assistance with the support of  The fixed-income investment strategy aims to diversify 
digital tools and platforms. Growth in this segment will  the portfolio, both within the sector of government bonds 
also be supported by taking advantage of the opportu- as well as in terms of corporate bonds, in order to guar-
nities offered by new markets and moving forward with  antee adequate profitability to policyholders as well as 
distribution channel and partnership initiatives.  a satisfactory return on capital while maintaining a con-
To handle these changes, the Group has rolled out a  trolled risk profile.
number of initiatives to exploit the opportunities offered  Alternative investments and investments in real assets 
by new technologies, for claims settlement as well as  are considered appealing due to their contribution to 
time to market. These initiatives will continue to work  portfolio diversification and profitability. The Group is de-
alongside a disciplined portfolio management approach  veloping a multi-boutique insurance asset manager plat-
- pricing, selection and profitability of risks - and care- form to enhance the investment capacity in these market 
ful assessments of customer requirements, which are  sectors and better monitor their management in terms of 
placed at the very centre of product development, so as  complexity as well as liquidity.
to create products that also take advantage of cross-sell- The increase in exposure to alternative investments will 
ing opportunities. be offset by reduced exposure to corporate bonds.
As in the past, management of the P&C segment - due  New direct investments in the real estate sector will be 
to the level of capital absorption of these products - will  primarily oriented towards the European market, while 
therefore continue to be a foundational principle for im- investments in the United States and Asia will be made 
plementing the Group’s strategy whose objective is to  selectively through funds.
become the leader in the European insurance market for 
private individuals, professionals and SMEs. Despite a rather challenging market context, the Group 
achieved the targets established in the 2016-2018 stra-
In the Asset Management segment, actions will contin- tegic plan, highlighting solid profitability, focused on the 
ue during 2019 to identify investment opportunities and  technical component and on cost efficiency, and offsetting 
sources of income for all customers, while at the same  the effects of low interest rates. On 21 November 2018, 
time managing risks. Consistent with the Group’s strat- the Group presented to investors the new 2021 Generali 
egy, growth will be achieved through the expansion of  strategy, whose priority is to consolidate its leadership 
the multi-boutique platform in order to increase the prod- in Europe and strengthen its position in high-potential 
uct catalogue in terms of real assets and high convic- markets, financial optimisation, and innovation and the 
tion strategies for customers and partners. This platform,  digital transformation of the operating model. Thanks to 
which is at present mainly based in Europe, aims to be- these initiatives, the Group is committed to achieving an 
come global with the increase in revenues and assets un- increase in earnings per share of between 6% and 8% 
der management (AUM) that will result from third-party  over the next three years and to offer greater returns to 
customers that do not fall within the scope of the Group’s  shareholders with an average RoE of more than 11.5% 
insurance policies. and a pay-out ratio between 55% and 65%.
The Report contains statements concerning events, estimates, forecasts and future expectations based on the current knowledge 
of the Group’s management. Such statements are generally preceded by expressions such as “a decrease/increase is expected”, 
“is forecast”, “should grow”, “we believe it may decline” or other similar wording. Please note that these forward-looking statements 
should not be considered forecasts of the Group’s actual results or of factors outside the Group. Generali assumes no obligation to 
update or revise such forecasts, even after new information, future events or other elements come to light, unless required by law.