120 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
NFS Non-financial information is disclosed in the Annual Integrated Report of the Generali Group in compliance with the 
provisions of legislative decree of 30 December 2016, no. 254 (leg. decree 254/2016), in implementation of European 
directive 2014/95. This information is clearly identified through a specific infographic (NFS) created for the purposes 
of simplifying the fulfilments required by the decree and improving accessibility to the information itself.
To the extent necessary for an understanding of the Group development, performance, position and impact of its 
activity, information relating to environmental matters, social and employee-related matters, respect for human rights, 
anti-corruption and bribery matters - which is relevant to the activities and characteristics of the Group - is reported 
together with a description of the:
- organization and management model, including direct and indirect impact (p. 26-27). The main operating companies 
based in Italy have adopted models pursuant to article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), of legislative decree of 8 June 2001, no. 
231. These models aim at mitigating risks connected to offences that are relevant also to legislative decree of 30 December 
2016, no. 254;
Corporate Governance and Share Ownership Report 2018,  
p. 113-114 for the organization and management model  
of the Parent Company
- policies applied (p. 23, p. 24-25 and p. 30-33);
- non-financial key performance indicators (p. 10-11, 18-25, 31 and where indicated through the infographic);
- principal risks related to the matters mentioned above and their management (p. 20 for employee-related matters, 
p. 24-25 for respect for human rights, as well as anti-corruption and bribery matters, and p. 28-33 for environmental, 
social and respect for human rights matters).
The Report complies with currently effective regulations and applies the International <IR> Framework -issued by 
the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) - of which it mainly highlights the following Guiding Principles: 
materiality, connectivity of information and conciseness. The standard adopted for the disclosure of the material 
matters identified by the Group, including those non-financial matters envisaged by leg. decree 254/2016, is the 
Consolidated Set of GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, issued in 2016 by the GRI-Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-
Referenced claims), with reference to selected GRI Standards and indicators of the GRI G4 Financial Services Sector 
Disclosures.
Note to the Management Report, p. 130 for the criteria of the 
International <IR> Framework and selected indicators
In line with the previous Statement, information which is relevant to the decree was identified through an innovative 
materiality process developed in accordance with the International <IR> Framework. Specifically, matters in the 2016 
materiality matrix, where primary importance is ascribed to the perspective of internal and external stakeholders, 
were found within the main reporting documents produced by the Company and approved by corporate bodies or, at 
least, top management of Generali, and then examined through the content analysis methodology. The most material 
matters in terms of frequency within the documentary sample of more than 1,200 pages - that are therefore disclosed - 
are the following:
  1. Responsible business management In accordance with the choices made in the last Report 
  2. Responsible remuneration and incentives and in line with the new strategy announced in November 
  3. Climate change and natural disasters 2018, their disclosure is integrated with information on 
  4. Product and service development the following matters:
  5. Responsible investments and underwriting
  6. Data and cyber security  12. Prevention of corruption 
  7. Quality of the customer experience  13. Demographic and social change 
  8. Business innovation for the digital customer 14. Relations with distributors
  9. Insurance solutions promoting sustainable and  15. Diversity, inclusion and equal opportunities
responsible behaviour
 10. Attracting talent and development of human capital
 11. Employee engagement and promotion of a common 
    Glossary available at the end of this document
culture