12 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
2018 key facts www.generali.com/media/
press-releases/all
February March April May
Launch of Generali Global  Sale completed of operations both  Geographical presence pushed 
The Net Promoter Score  Infrastructure (GGI), a cornerstone  in Panama and Colombia, countries  forward in the Central and Eastern 
programme of Generali was  of the Group’s multi-boutique asset  where Generali is still present  European countries acquiring control 
recognized as the world’s best  management strategy. It is a platform  through Europ Assistance and its  of Concordia Capital SA e Concordia 
one by Medallia during the  that employs internal know-how  Global Business Lines. Polska TUW, Polish Life and P&C 
Experience Europe 2017 event  and also creates partnerships to  companies respectively, as well as 
held in London. The programme  invest in infrastructure debt across  acquiring the entire capital of Adriatic 
enables to listen to client  a wide geographical and sectorial  Slovenica and its subsidiaries 
feedback in real time and act on  investment scope and develop a  providing a full suite of P&C, health, 
that feedback in order to resolve  range of products and solutions for  life and pension products. The 
issues and improve services.  investors.   former transaction was approved 
It covers retail and corporate  in November and the latter was 
customers as well as distributors. The investment selection  completed in February 2019.
approach is rigorous both 
NFS
from a credit quality and ESG  Austria, CEE & Russia,  
p. 62
(Environmental, Social, and  On 19 April, the Shareholders’ 
Governance) factors perspective. Meeting of Assicurazioni Generali 
Sale completed of the entire  approved the 2017 financial 
NFS
shareholding in Generali Nederland  statements, the remuneration policy,  Revolving credit facilities 
N.V. (and its subsidiaries). Generali  the 2018 Group Long Term Incentive  renewed, initially signed in 
remains active in the Netherlands  Plan (LTIP) and the amendments to  2013 and last renewed in 
through Europ Assistance and its  Investment, Asset & Wealth  the Articles of Association. It also  2015, increasing their overall 
Management, p. 67
Global Business Lines, continuing  approved the proposal to delegate  amount and adopting innovative 
to provide insurance services to its  the Board of Directors to increase  sustainable and green features: 
international customers. the share capital with free issues in  their cost is linked both to targets 
one or several transactions, for the  on green investments and to 
purposes of the 2018 LTIP. progress made on sustainability 
During the Board of Directors’  For the first time, Generali  initiatives.
meeting on 21 February, Generali  transmitted via streaming the initial 
NFS
approved its climate change  speeches, thus confirming its focus 
strategy including actions in its  on digital development and the 
core activities, i.e. investments  integration of technology into the 
and underwriting. business.
NFS
The Generali 2021 
strategy, p. 21
In execution of the 2015 Long Term 
Incentive Plan the share capital of 
Assicurazioni Generali increased to 
€ 1,565,165,364.