136 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
Operating result by margins
The following reclassifications were made in the calcu-
lation of the operating result with respect to the corre-
sponding items of the income statement: The operating result of the various segments was also 
– the investment management and investment property  shown in accordance with a margin-based layout which 
management expenses in the operating result were re- shows the operating trends of the changes that occurred 
classified from acquisition and administration costs to  in each segment performance more clearly.
net operating income from other financial instruments, 
more specifically into other expenses from financial in- The operating result of the Life segment comprises a 
struments and land and buildings (investment proper- technical margin including insurance costs, a net invest-
ties); ment result and a component that includes acquisition 
– income and expenses related to real estate develop- and administration costs related to the insurance busi-
ment activities in the operating result were classified  ness and other net operating expenses. The technical 
as other non-operating income and expenses, in ac- margin includes the loadings and the risk and profit from 
cordance with the management model adopted that  the surrender results for the period.
provides for sale at completion; The net investment result comprises operating income 
– gains and losses on foreign currencies in the operating  from investments, net of the portion attributable to the 
result were reclassified in the Life and Holding and oth- policyholders. Finally, the insurance management and 
er business from net operating income to net operating  other operating components are indicated separately.
income from financial instruments at fair value through 
profit or loss. In the Property & Casualty segment,  The operating result for the Property & Casualty segment 
gains and losses on foreign currencies in the operating  comprises the technical result, the financial result and oth-
result were reclassified from net operating income to  er operating items. The technical result is equivalent to the 
net non-operating income from financial instruments at  insurance activity result, i.e. the difference between premi-
fair value through profit or loss. The classification for  ums and claims, acquisition and administration costs and 
each segment is consistent with the related classifica- other net technical income. The investment result compris-
tion of the derivative transaction drawn up in order to  es current income from investments and other operating 
hedge the Group’s equity exposure to the changes in  net financial expenses, like expenses on investment man-
the main currencies of operations. The net operating  agement and interest expenses on operating debt. Finally, 
and non-operating income from other financial instru- other operating items mainly include acquisition and ad-
ments are therefore not subject to financial market vol- ministration costs related to the insurance business, de-
atility; preciation of tangible assets and amortization of long-term 
– in net operating income from financial instruments,  costs, provisions for recurring risks and other taxes.
interest expenses on deposits and current accounts 
under reinsurance business are not included among 
Operating return on equity
interest expenses related to liabilities linked to operat-
ing activities but are deducted from the related interest 
income. Moreover, the interest expenses related to the  The operating return on equity indicates the return on 
abovementioned real estate development activities are  capital in terms of the Group operating result. It is calcu-
not included in interest expenses related to liabilities  lated through the relationship between:
linked to operating activities, but are classified under  – consolidated operating result as described above ad-
other non-operating income and expenses in accord- justed to include:
ance with the management mod- el adopted that pro- – interest on financial debt;
vides for sale at completion; – income taxes based on a mid-term expected tax 
– the net other operating expenses in the operating result  rate;
were adjusted for operating taxes and for non-recurring  – minority interests;
taxes that significantly affect the operating income of  – average Group shareholders’ equity at the beginning 
the countries where policyholders’ stakes are deter- and end of each period of valuation, adjusted to ex-
mined by taking the taxes for the period into account.  clude other gains and losses booked directly to equity 
These adjustments were included in the calculation of  included in Other Comprehensive Income OCI such as 
operating income and are excluded from the income  gains and losses on AFS investments, foreign currency 
taxes item. translation differences, net unrealized gains and losses 
on hedging derivatives.