Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 13  
2018
June July September October
Generali CEE Holding B.V. and  Sale launched of 89.9% of Generali 
UniCredit signed a bancassurance  Leben and transaction signed with  Generali included in the Dow  New function dedicated to 
agreement for the distribution of  Viridium Gruppe, with which Generali  Jones Sustainability World Index  Cyber Insurance launched 
insurance solutions in Central and  established a broader industrial  (DJSI), the most prestigious  along with a start-up to satisfy 
Eastern Europe. partnership in the German insurance  international index that identifies  client needs in the field of cyber 
market. The transaction is subject to  leading businesses based on  risks. The new function will 
Sale completed of the entire  the approval by the German Federal  their sustainability performance.  combine broad-scale insurance 
shareholding in Generali PanEurope.  Financial Supervisory Authority  Generali is the only Italian  offerings in the IT realm with 
Generali remains active in Ireland  (BaFin) and to the clearance by  insurance company in this index. the support of a tech start-up, 
through its Global Business Lines. the competent German antitrust  GeneraliCyberSecurTech, wholly 
NFS
authorities. owned by the Group and created 
to offer clients innovative cyber 
Announcement of the Group’s new  risk assessment methods.
organizational structure, which will  A new innovative asset management  Challenges and 
opportunities of the 
boost the Group’s capacity to face the  company headquartered in New York 
market context, p. 30
significant challenges of the 2019- launched with Aperture Investors, 
NFS
2021 strategic plan. Amongst the  aligning client and manager interests 
other organizational modifications in  through an innovative performance-
force as of 1 September, the position  linked fee model.
of General Manager was created,  Option of early redemption 
reporting directly to the Group CEO,  announced on all perpetual 
assigned to Frédéric de Courtois, and  subordinated notes outstanding 
Cristiano Borean was appointed to  belonging to ISIN XS0399861326 
the position of Group CFO and joined  exercised in November. The exercise 
the Group Management Committee  of this option was authorized by the 
(GMC). Luigi Lubelli resigned from the  Italian insurance regulatory agency 
Group at the end of the year. (IVASS) and will take place with 
respect to all notes outstanding, 
Corporate Governance 
in compliance with the respective 
and Share Ownership 
Report 2018, p. 30-33 terms and conditions. Another 
early redemption relating to notes 
belonging to ISIN XS0406159623 
was exercised in December.
Agreement signed for the acquisition 
of 100% of the Polish asset 
management company Union 
Investments TFI S.A., that will 
significantly strengthen Generali’s 
position in asset management in 
central and eastern Europe. The 
transaction is subject to the approval 
of the regulatory authorities.
Moody’s confirmed the IFS rating of 
Assicurazioni Generali at Baa1 and 
of the notes issued or guaranteed 
by Generali (Baa2 senior debt; Baa3 
senior subordinated debt; Ba1(hyb) 
junior subordinated debt). The 
outlook is stable.