14 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
2018
Significant events after 31 
December 2018 
November December January February
Launch of Generali Global Pension,  100% of CM Investment Solutions  Sale of Generali Belgium, launched in  Europ Assistance acquired Trip Mate, 
a new business unit capable of  Limited acquired. This transaction  April 2018, completed; however, the  the leading company in the market of 
offering innovative long-term asset  represents an acceleration of  Group remains present in Belgium  travel insurance for tour operators in 
management and environmental,  Generali’s multi-boutique strategy,  through its Global Business Lines,  the United States.
social and governance (ESG) skills,  strengthening its capacity to reach  continuing to provide insurance and 
funds for multi-boutique platforms,  sophisticated clients and distribution  assistance solutions.
cross-border services and a new  partners in Europe and worldwide. Closed the acquisition of the 
generation of defined contribution  AM BEST confirmed its Financial  majority stake in Sycomore 
plans and selective risk transfer. Completion of the process of  Strength Rating (FSR) of A (Excellent)  Factory SAS, started in 
transferring the P&C portfolio of the  and raised Generali’s Long-Term  September. The strategic 
The Generali Group’s new strategy  UK branch announced after the Italian  Issuer Credit Rating (ICR) from “a”  partnership, that is another 
presented to investors, in line with  insurance regulatory agency (IVASS)  to “a+”. The Long-Term ICR outlook  step forward in the execution of 
the Group’s desire to become a  expressed its favourable opinion. was modified from positive to stable,  Generali’s asset management 
life-time partner for its customers,  while the FSR outlook is stable. strategy, will allow to enrich 
offering innovative and customized  the offering with innovative 
solutions relying on its unequalled  Generali was amongst the  A € 500 million subordinated bond  investment solutions and to 
distribution network; and to be a  main investors in the project  issue was successfully placed with  strengthen focus and capabilities 
leader in the European insurance  for the construction of the new  institutional investors, for the partial  on sustainability and responsible 
market for private individuals,  Trieste Convention Centre,  refinancing of € 750 million in  investments for clients.
professionals and SMEs, while also  the multifunctional centre  subordinated debt of the Group, with 
NFS
creating a global and focused asset  which aims to become a hub  the first call date in 2019. The issue 
management platform and pursuing  of innovation and knowledge  received orders from roughly 450 
opportunities in high-potential  amongst research and training  investors for a total in excess of € 6.5 
markets. entities and businesses in Central  billion, 13 times the amount offered. 
and Eastern Europe as well as  The rating agencies Fitch, Moody’s 
The Generali 2021  the Balkans. and AM Best rated that issue “BBB”, 
strategy, p. 16-17
“Baa3” (hyb) and “a-”, respectively.
NFS
Option of early redemption 
announced on all perpetual 
Share held in the Indian insurance  subordinated notes outstanding 
joint ventures with Future Group  belonging to ISINs XS0415966786 
increased to 49%. Through this  and XS0416148202, to be exercised 
transaction Generali will accelerate  in March. The exercise of this 
the leverage of the far-reaching  option was authorized by the Italian 
distribution network of Future  insurance regulatory agency (IVASS) 
Group to offer insurance protection  and will take place with respect to 
solutions in the Indian market with a  all notes outstanding, in compliance 
The Italian insurance regulatory  focus on digital. with the respective terms and 
agency (IVASS) authorized the  conditions.
extension of the scope of application 
of the Group’s internal model to 
Austria and Switzerland as of 
December 2018.