154 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
Basis of presentation and accounting principles
Basis of presentation Consolidated financial 
statements
This document is the consolidated financial statements of 
Generali Group, registered under number 026 of the In- The set of the consolidated financial statements is made 
surance Groups Register, whose Parent Company is Ass- up of the balance sheet, the income statement, the 
icurazioni Generali SpA, a company established in Trieste  statement of comprehensive income, the statement of 
in 1831 with a share capital of € 1.565.165.364 fully paid  changes in equity and the statement of cash flow, as re-
up.  quired by the ISVAP Regulation No. 7 of 13 July 2007, 
as subsequently amended. The financial statements also 
The registered office of the Group and the Parent Compa- include special items that are considered significant for 
ny is established in Trieste, Piazza Duca degli Abruzzi, 2  the Group. 
and is registered under the number 1,00003 of the register 
of insurance and reinsurance companies. The Notes, which are mandatory as minimum content 
established by ISVAP (now IVASS), are presented in the 
The Generali Group’s consolidated financial statements  appendices  to the notes to this report. 
at 31 December 2018 were drawn up in accordance with 
the IAS/IFRS issued by the IASB and endorsed by the  This yearly report is drawn up in Euro (the functional cur-
European Union, in accordance with the Regulation (EC)  rency used by the entity that prepared the financial state-
No. 1606 of 19 July 2002 and the Legislative Decree No.  ments) and the amounts are shown in millions, unless 
58/1998, as subsequently amended. otherwise stated, the rounded amounts may not add to 
the rounded total in all cases.
The Legislative Decree No. 209/2005 empowered ISVAP 
to give further instructions for financial statements in com-
Consolidation methods
pliance with the international accounting standards.
In this yearly report the Generali Group prepared its con- Investments in subsidiaries are consolidated line by line, 
solidated financial statements and Notes in conformity  whereas investments in associated companies and inter-
with the ISVAP (now IVASS) Regulation No. 7 of 13 July  ests in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity 
2007, as subsequently amended, and information of the  method.
Consob Communication No. 6064293 of 28 July 2006.
The balance sheet items of  the financial statements de-
As allowed by the aforementioned Regulation, the Gen- nominated in foreign currencies are translated into Euro 
erali Group believed it appropriate to supplement its con- based on the exchange rates at the end of the year.
solidated financial statements with detailed items and to 
provide further details in the Notes in order to also meet  The profit and loss account items are translated based 
the IAS/IFRS requirements. on the average exchange rates of the year. They reason-
ably approximate the exchange rates at the dates of the 
For more information on discontinued operations and  transactions.
their accounting treatment, please refer to the paragraph 
Non-current assets or disposal group classified as held for  The exchange rate differences arising from the transla-
sale in the section Information on consolidation area and  tion of the statements expressed in foreign currencies 
Group companies. are accounted for in equity in an appropriate reserve and 
recognized in the profit and loss account only at the time 
The consolidated financial statements at 31 December  of the disposal of the investments.
2018 were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 
March 2019.
The consolidated financial statements at 31 December 
2018 were audited by E&Y S.p.A., the appointed audit firm 
from 2012 to 2020.    
  