156 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
date of a company differs from that of the Parent Com- sideration transferred measured at its acquisition date 
pany, the former prepares interim financial statements  fair value, including contingent consideration, liabilities 
at 31 December of each financial year; assumed towards the previous owners, and the amount 
– All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, income,  of  any  non-controlling  interests.  For  each  business 
expenses and cash flows relating to transactions be- combination, the Group elects whether to measure the 
tween members of the Group are eliminated in full on  non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or 
consolidation process (intra-group losses are eliminat- at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable 
ed, except to the extent that the underlying asset is  net assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as 
impaired); incurred and included in administrative expenses.
– the carrying amount of the Parent Company’s invest-
ment in each subsidiary and the Parent Company’s  If in a business combination achieved in stages, the ac-
portion of equity of each subsidiary are eliminated at  quirer’s previously held equity interests in the acquire is 
the date of acquisition; re-measured at its acquisition date fair value and any 
– Profit or loss and each component of other comprehen- resulting gain or loss recognized in profit or loss. 
sive income (OCI) are attributed to the equity holders 
of the Parent of the Group and to the non-controlling  Any contingent consideration to be transferred or re-
interests, even if this results in the non-controlling in- ceived by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at 
terests having a deficit balance. The non-controlling  the acquisition date. Contingent consideration classi-
interests, together with their share of profit are shown  fied as an asset or liability that is a financial instrument 
as separate items. and within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement, is measured at fair val-
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, with- ue with changes in fair value recognised either in either 
out a change of control, is accounted for as an equity  profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive 
transaction.  Consequently,  no  additional  goodwill  or  income. If the contingent consideration is not within 
badwill is recognized. the scope of IAS 39, it is measured in accordance with 
the appropriate IFRS. Contingent consideration that is 
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecog- classified as equity is not re-measured and subsequent 
nizes the related assets (including goodwill), liabilities,  settlement is accounted for within equity.
non-controlling interest and other components of equity 
while any resultant gain or loss is recognized in profit or  The assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a busi-
loss. Any investment retained is recognized at fair value. ness combination are initially recognized at fair value 
at the acquisition date. Goodwill is initially measured at 
Investment funds managed by the Group in which the  cost being the excess of the aggregate acquisition cost 
Group holds an interest and that are not managed in the  over the net value of the identifiable assets acquired 
primary interest of the policyholders are consolidated  and liabilities assumed is accounted for as goodwill. If 
based on the substance of the economic relationship  the impairment test lead to the result that theacquisition 
and if whether the conditions of control stated by IFRS  cost is less than the fair value of the assets acquired 
10 are satisfied. On consolidation of an investment fund,  and liabilities assumed, the difference is recognised in 
a liability is recognized to the extent that the Group is  the profit and loss account.
legally obliged to buy back participations held by third 
parties. Where this is not the case, other participations 
Investments in associates and joint 
held by third parties are presented as non-controlling in-
terests in equity. ventures
The investments in associates and joint ventures are 
Business combination and goodwill
consolidated trough the equity method.
Business combinations are acquisitions of assets and  An associate is an entity over which the investor has sig-
liabilities that constitutes a business and are account- nificant influence. Significant influence is the power to 
ed for applying the so-called acquisition method The  participate in the financial and operating policy decisions 
acquisition cost is measured as the sum of the con- of the investee but is not control or joint control over 