Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 157  
those policies. If an investor holds, directly or indirectly  any other unsecured long-term receivables, the group 
through subsidiaries, 20% or more of the voting power of  does not recognize further losses, unless it has incurred 
the investee, it is presumed that the investor has signifi- obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate 
cant influence. or joint venture.
In general, joint arrangements are contractual agree- Upon loss of significant influence over the associate or 
ments whereby the Group undertakes with other parties  joint control over the joint venture the Group measures 
an economic activity that is subject to joint control. In- and recognizes and retained investment at its fair value. 
vestments in joint arrangements are classified as either  Any difference between the net proceeds and the fair 
joint operations or joint ventures depending on the con- value of the retained interest and the carrying amount is 
tractual rights and obligations each investor has rather  recognized in the income statement and gains and loss-
than the legal structure of the joint arrangement. A joint  es previously recorded directly through OCI are reversed 
venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties  and recorded through the income statement.
that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to 
the net assets of the joint venture. Joint control exists 
Significant judgements in 
when it is contractually agreed to share control of an eco-
nomic activity, which exists only when decisions about  determining control, joint control 
the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of  and significant influence over an 
the parties sharing control. entity
Generali Group has assessed the nature of its current  The control is normally ensured by the full ownership of 
joint arrangements and determined them to be joint ven- the voting rights, having thus the ability to direct the rel-
tures and none are joint operations.  evant activities and consequently being exposed to the 
variability of results arising from those activities.
The considerations made in determining significant in-
fluence or joint control are similar to those necessary to  The Group controls all the companies for which holds 
determine control over subsidiaries. Investments in as- more than half of the voting rights. The Group does not 
sociates and joint ventures are accounted for using the  control any subsidiary having less than the majority of 
equity method and they are initially recognized at cost,  voting rights and does not control any entity even though 
which includes goodwill arising on acquisition. Goodwill  it holds more than half of the voting rights, except in two 
is not separately tested for impairment. Negative good- cases in which the Group controls the company owning 
will is recognized in the income statement on the acquisi- half of the voting rights, being exposed to the variability 
tion date. The carrying amount of the investment is sub- of returns that depend on the operating policies that the 
sequently adjusted to recognize changes in the Group’s  Group, in substance, has the power to direct .
share of the net assets of the associate or joint venture 
since the acquisition date. The income statements re- To a minor extent, the Group holds interests in associ-
flects the Group’s share of the results of operations of  ates and joint ventures. The agreements under which the 
the associate or joint venture. Any change in OCI of those  Group has joint control of a separate vehicle are qualified 
investees is presented as part of the Group’s OCI. Div- as joint ventures where they give rights to the net assets.
idends receivable from associates are recognized as a 
reduction in the carrying amount of the investment. In one case, the Group has no significant influence on 
a subject for which it holds more than 20% of the vot-
At each reporting date, after application of the equity  ing rights as the government structure is such that the 
method the Group determines whether there is objec- Group, in substance, does not have the power to partic-
tive evidence that the investment in the associate or joint  ipate in financial and operating policies of the investee.
venture is impaired. If there is such evidence, the Group 
calculates the amount of impairment as the difference be- Regardless of the legal form of the investment, the evalu-
tween the recoverable amount of the associate or joint  ation of the control is made considering the real power on 
venture and its carrying value, then recognizes the loss  the investee  and the practical ability to influence relevant 
as ‘Share of losses of an associate’ in the income state- activities, regardless of the voting rights held by the par-
ment. Where the Group’s share of losses in an associate  ent company or its subsidiaries.
equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including 