158 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
IAS 29 “Financial Reporting in 
In the Annexes to the consolidated financial statements 
the complete list of subsidiaries, associates and joint ven- Hyperinflationary Economies” 
tures included in the consolidated financial statements at  application on the Argentine 
31 December 2017 is presented. Unless otherwise stat- companies
ed, the annex shows the share capital of each consolidat-
ed entity and the proportion of ownership interest held by 
the Group equals the voting rights of the Group. At December 31, 2018, the conditions for the application 
of the IAS 29 “Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary 
The qualitative and quantitative disclosures required by  Economies” to the financial statement values of the Ar-
IFRS 12 are provided in the paragraph “Information on  gentine companies of the Caja de Seguros SA Group, 
consolidation perimeter and Group companies” in the  Europ Assistance Argentina SA, Caja de Ahorro y Seguro 
Notes. SA, Retire SA in particular the cumulative rate of inflation 
over the last 3 years has exceeded 100%.
Foreign currency transactions and 
Specifically, the financial statements items of the above 
balances  mentioned Argentine companies have been restated, 
applying the Argentine Consumer Price Index, which re-
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded  flects the change of general purchasing power. In par-
by the Group’s entities at their respective functional cur- ticular, the following items have been restated at the unit 
rency spot rates at the date the transaction first qualifies  current at the end of the reporting period:
for recognition. – non monetary assets and liabilities; 
– all  items  of  comprehensive  income,  applying  the 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign  change of the general price index from the date when 
currencies are translated at the functional currency spot  income and expenses were initially registered in the fi-
rates of exchange at the reporting date. nancial statements; 
– the items of income statement has been restated at the 
Differences arising on settlement or translation of mon- closing rate;
etary items are recognised in profit or loss with the ex- – restatement in the first period of application of the 
ception of monetary items that are designated as part of  standard of the components of owners’ equity, except 
the hedge of the Group’s net investment of a foreign op- retained earnings and any revaluation surplus, apply-
eration. These are recognised in other comprehensive  ing the Consumer Price Index index from the dates 
income until the net investment is disposed of, at which  the components were contributed. . Restated retained 
time, the cumulative amount is reclassified to profit or  earnings are derived from the restatement of assets 
loss. Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange  and liabilities; 
differences on those monetary items are also recorded  – restatement at the end of the period of the compo-
in other comprehensive income. nents of owner’s equity, applying the Consumer Price 
Index index at the beginning of the period. 
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of his-
torical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the  The effects of reassessment until 31 December 2017 are 
exchange rates at the dates of the initial transactions.  included in the opening balance of shareholder’s equity. 
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign  The impacts at consolidated level are not material and do 
currency are translated using the exchange rates at the  not require the presentation of statements of Argentine 
date when the fair value is determined. The gain or loss  companies.
arising on translation of non-monetary items measured 
at fair value is treated in line with the recognition of gain 
or loss on change in fair value of the item (i.e., transla-
tion differences on items whose fair value gain or loss 
is recognised in other comprehensive income or profit 
or loss are also recognised in other comprehensive in-
come or profit or loss, respectively).