Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 159  
Accounting principles
obligations
– Step 5: Recognise revenue when (or as) the entity sat-
The accounting standards adopted in preparing the con- isfies a performance obligation.
solidated financial statements, and the contents of the 
items in the financial statements are presented in this  An entity shall recognise revenue when (or as) the en-
section. tity satisfies a performance obligation by transferring a 
promised good or service (ie an asset) to a customer. An 
asset is transferred when (or as) the customer obtains 
New accounting principles, changes 
control of that asset.
in the accounting rules and in the 
financial statements The transfer of control of the asset is the key element of 
the revenue recognition, which may be point-in-time or 
Following the endorsement of the European Union, as  over time.
from the 1st January 2018 new principles and amend-
ments shall be applied. The most relevant changes for  Revenue is recognized “point-in-time”, as the control of 
the Group with respect to the consolidated financial  the asset is passed, or “over time”, during the period. The 
statements at 31 December 2017 are described below. In  revenues are recognized “over time” if one of the following 
addition, the main documents issued by the International  criteria is met:
Accounting Standard Board, that could be relevant for  1)  the customer simultaneously receives and consumes 
the Group, but not yet effective, are described. all of the benefits provided by the entity as the entity 
performs;
2)  the entity’s performance creates or enhances an as-
New accounting principles, changes 
set that the customer controls as the asset is created;
in the accounting rules that shall be  3)  the entity’s performance does not creates an asset 
applied from 1 January 2018 with an alternative use to the entity and the entity 
has an enforceable right to payment for performance 
There are no new accounting standards or changes to  completed to date.
existing standards effective from 1 January relevant for 
the Group. The changes which become applicable are  The Generali Group is a predominantly insurance group. 
not significant for the Group and are indicated in the cor- The revenues arising from this business are defined by 
responding specific section, after the new accounting  IFRS 4 “Insurance contracts”; the other revenues arising 
standards and changes that are not yet effective, below. from the sale of goods and services different from finan-
cial and insurance services, and arising from asset man-
agement are defined and disciplined by IFRS 15. These 
IFRS 15 – Revenue from contracts with  revenues are included in the income statement item 
customers “Other revenues”. In particular, within Generali Group, 
entities specialized in in banking, asset management and 
IFRS  15  “Revenue  form  contracts  with  customers”,  other residual businesses included in the segment “Hold-
which treats revenue recognition, is effective from 1 Jan- ing and other activities” operates.
uary 2018 and replaces IAS 11 “Construction Contracts” 
and IAS 18 “Revenue”, and includes new requirements  Revenues from contracts with customers for Generali 
concerning the measurement and timing of revenue rec- Group are mainly financial and real estate asset manager, 
ognition investment and pension funds commissions, as well as 
service and assistance. These revenues are not multi-an-
Insurance contracts are excluded from the scope of the  nual and recognized on accrual basis during the finan-
standard; as a result the potential impacts for insurance  cial year, and included in the item “Commission Income” 
companies  are  connected  to  contracts  that  include  (note 27). In some cases, in particular in case of asset 
non-insurance services and management fees. and pension fund management, the revenues are linked 
to managed amounts or to the performance of the as-
In particular IFRS 15 defines the following steps: sets. Despite this, significant judgements in estimate and 
– Step 1: Identifying contracts measurement of revenues has been rarely needed, i.e. for 
– Step 2: Identifying performance obligations the definition of transfer price, timing etc.
– Step 3: Determining the transaction price
– Step 4: Allocating the transaction price to performance  Within the Group, there are also other entities which op-