160 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
erates in different activities, with an absolutely residual  principal and interest (solely payments of principal and 
impact on revenues and income. The revenues arising  interest – SPPI).
from these activities are included in the item “Other in-
come” and further detailed in note 31. Considering to the contractual characteristics, a financial 
instrument is eligible for measurement at amortized cost 
The asset/liabilities arising from contracts with custom- if it consists in a basic lending agreement. The entity shall 
ers are not significant, in particular due to the above illus- make its own assessment on the single financial instru-
trated business. ment to assess if the nature of the contractual cash flows 
characteristics exclusively consists in payments of princi-
In the recognition of the impact on the revenues already  pal and interest (SPPI). If a modification of the time value 
accounted for in the past period, the Group applied the  of the interest results in cash flows that are significantly 
simplified retrospective approach, which requires the  different than those of a basic lending agreement then the 
recognition of the cumulative effect of initially applying  instrument must be classified and measured at fair value 
the standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of  through profit or loss.
retained earnings.
If the business model (assessed on portfolio basis) has 
The Group assessed the  economic and accounting ef- the objective to collect the cash flows from the invest-
fects of the standard and there are not significant im- ments and to sell financial assets and the contractual 
pacts on the economic and financial position. cash flows characteristics represent only payments of 
principal and interest, the financial instrument under as-
The standard is effective from annual period that started  sessment shall be measured at fair value through other 
at 1 January 2018.  comprehensive income with recycling to profit or loss 
when the instrument is realized.
New accounting principles and 
As in the current IAS 39 Financial Instruments: classifi-
amendments not yet applicable  cation and measurement the entity has the ability at ini-
tial recognition, to designate a financial instrument at fair 
IFRS 9 – Financial instruments  value through profit or loss if that would eliminate or sig-
nificantly reduce the accounting mismatch in the meas-
IFRS 9 replaces IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Classifi- urement of assets or liabilities or recognition of gains and 
cation and Measurement” and includes a principle-based  losses related to them.
model for the classification and measurement of financial 
instruments, an impairment model based on expected  The equity instruments shall be classified and measured 
losses and an hedge accounting approach more in line  at fair value through profit or loss. The entity has the ir-
with risk management strategies. revocable option at initial recognition to present changes 
in the fair value of the equity instruments that are not held 
for the purpose of trading at fair value recorded in other 
Classification and measurement comprehensive income, with no recycling in the income 
statement except dividends.
IFRS 9 introduces an approach to the classification of 
debt instruments that is based on contractual cash flows  In other cases, the financial instruments are classified 
characteristics  and models through which financial in- and measured at fair value through profit or loss, which is 
struments are managed (business model). the residual model. 
In particular, the classification of financial instruments is  The Group is assessing the impacts of the new classifi-
driven by the business model through which the compa- cation model. For further information see the following 
ny manages its investments and the contractual terms of  paragraph ‘Implementation of the standard. Overall, the 
their cash flows. Group expects to have limited impacts on the classifi-
cation and measurement of instruments, in particular as 
A financial asset is measured at amortized cost if both of  regards the application of the SPPI test requirements-
the following conditions are met: Considering to the contractual characteristics, a financial 
– the asset is held to collect cash flows (business model  instrument is eligible for measurement at amortized cost 
assessment) if it consists in a basic lending agreement. The entity shall 
– the contractual cash flows represent only payments of  make its own assessment on the single financial instru-