Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 161  
ment to assess if the nature of the contractual cash flows  expected credit losses. In light of the high creditworthi-
characteristics exclusively consists in payments of princi- ness of the debt securities, the new model Expected 
pal and interest (SPPI,). If a modification of the time value  Credit Losses should not result in significant impacts for 
of the interest results in cash flows that are significantly  the Group.
different than those of a basic lending agreement then the 
instrument must be classified and measured at fair value 
through profit or loss. Hedge accounting
IFRS 9 introduces a model substantially reformed for 
Impairment hedge accounting that allows better than in IAS 39 to 
reflect in financial statements the hedging activities un-
IFRS 9 introduced a new impairment approach for debt  dertaken by risk management.
instruments measured at amortized cost or fair value re-
corded in other comprehensive income, which is based  In particular there is a significant simplification of the 
on expected losses. In particular, the new standard out- effectiveness test. There are no more predetermined 
lines an approach for the impairment in three stages  thresholds of coverage to achieve effective hedge (ie 80-
based on the assessment of credit quality from the date  125% in the current IAS 39),but it is sufficient that:
of initial recognition at each balance sheet date: – there is an economic relationship between the hedging 
– Stage 1 includes the financial instruments that have  instrument and the hedged item; and
not had a significant increase in credit risk since initial  – credit risk should not be the key component of the 
recognition or that have low credit risk at the report- hedged risk (i.e. the change in fair value of the hedging 
ing date (investment grade). For these assets expected  relationship must not be dominated by the component 
losses (ECL) over the next 12 months (12-month ex- of credit risk).
pected credit losses - losses expected in view of the 
possible occurrence of events of default in the next 12  The standard will be effective, in the case of endorse-
months) are recognized in the profit or loss account. In- ment, from annual periods beginning on or after 1 Jan-
terest is calculated on the carrying amount (ie without  uary 2018. A transitional provision allows continuing to 
deduction of the loss allowance); apply IAS 39 for all hedging transactions until comple-
– Stage 2 includes financial instruments that have had  tion of the macrohedging project. The principle has been 
a significant increase in credit risk since initial recog- endorsed by the European Union by the EU Regulation 
nition (unless they have low credit risk at the reporting  2016/1905.
date) but that do not have objective evidence of impair-
ment. For these assets, lifetime ECL are recognised in 
a capital reserve (loss allowance), and in the profit or  IFRS 4 – Applying IFRS 9 Financial 
loss account , but interest revenue is still calculated  Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance 
on the gross carrying amount of the asset. (i.e. without  Contracts (Amendment to IFRS 4)
deduction of the loss allowance);
– Stage 3 includes financial assets that have objective  On 12 September 2016 the IASB published the amend-
evidence of impairment at the reporting date. For these  ment “Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 
assets, lifetime ECL are recognised in a capital reserve  4  Insurance  Contracts”,  endorsed  by  EU  Regulation 
(loss allowance), and in the profit or loss account. In- 2017/1988 on 3 November 2017, that introduces the 
terest revenue is calculated on the net carrying amount  possibility to defer the application of IFRS 9 for predom-
(that is, net of credit allowance). inantly insurers. The amendment aims to address the 
concerns of the insurance industry arising from the mis-
The model also introduces a simplified approach to  alignment of effective dates of the new financial instru-
trade receivables and leases for which it is not neces- ments standard and IFRS 17, the international standard 
sary to calculate the 12-month expected credit losses  on insurance contracts with effective date of 1 January 
but are always recognized the lifetime expected credit  2021. 
losses.
Both IFRS 9 and IFRS 17 are relevant for insurance en-
The Group is assessing the impact of the new impair- tities. The amendment aims to address the concerns of 
ment model introduced by the standard and expects  insurance sector arising from the different effective dates 
significant operational impacts related to the implemen- of IFRS 9 and IFRS 17.
tation of the calculation process of the abovementioned 