162 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
The Generali Group decided to apply the deferral ap- ation of the current portfolio mix. The standard, compared 
proach, appropriate in addressing the issues arising from  to what initially stated and thanks to the ongoing IASB 
the application of IFRS 9 before the new insurance con- amendment process, will be effective on 1 January 2022 
tracts standard. and, substantially, will allow to extend the implementation 
period of 12 months more.  
The adoption of the overlay approach – the alternative 
provided by the amendment, which allows the simulta- In the second half of 2017 the IASB set up the Transi-
neous application of IAS 39 and IFRS 9, would have in  tion Resource Group (TRG) for IFRS 17 “Insurance Con-
effect implied incremental costs due to reconciliation and  tracts”, a public forum, similar in form to those for IFRS 
alignment, compared to costs arising from the first appli- 15 Revenue from contracts with customers, and for IFRS 
cation of IFRS 9.   9 Financial Instruments relating to impairment, which has 
the purpose of discussing the implementation issues that 
The quantitative criteria for the application of the deferral  emerged and supporting the board in defining what ac-
and the disclosures required to the entities that postpone  tions may be taken to address such critical issues.
the application of IFRS 9 are included in the section “Dis-
closures about the temporary exemption from IFRS 9”. Taking into account some concerns raised by stakehold-
ers regarding several requirements of IFRS 17, the IASB 
started a process to consider potential amendments to 
Standard implementation the current formulation of the standard based on specif-
ic requirements which aim to protect the integrity of the 
The implementation of IFRS 9 aims to by the Group aims  information provided, avoiding the introduction of further 
to ensure the correct and consistent application of the  criticalities as well as the interruption of the implementa-
new accounting standard in conjunction with the entry into  tion processes in progress. Within this process the IASB 
force of IFRS 17, the future standard on insurance con- has tentatively decided to defer the date of first applica-
tracts. The Group expects impacts that may be material  tion to the 1 January 2022 and, coherently, to align the 
with reference to the classification and measurement of  date of application of IFRS 9 for entities which opted for 
financial instruments and consisting of a larger part of the  the postponed application of IFRS 9. The Group is mon-
portfolio of financial investments measured at fair value  itoring the IASB re-deliberation process, continuing the 
through profit or loss. With reference to impairment, the  implementation plan of the standard.
Group assessed that the Expected Credit Losses model 
should lead to less relevant impacts on the financial state- The Group expects a radical change in the financial state-
ments considering the high creditworthiness of the Group  ments disclosure both in terms of insurance liabilities 
debt portfolio.  evaluation, presentation of economic performance and 
notes. Considering the extraordinary magnitude of the 
new requirements introduced by the standard, very signif-
IFRS 17 – Insurance contracts icant impacts also in terms of resources, processes and 
information systems supporting the evaluation framework 
On 18 May 2017 the IASB published IFRS 17 “Insurance  are expected.
Contracts”, which substitutes the current IFRS 4 – In-
surance Contracts. The new standard. proposes a new  Due to the very significant impacts on financial informa-
measurement model for insurance contracts , structured  tion and operating model of the companies, the Group 
on a Building Block Approach based on the expected  started a finance transformation program at global level. 
value of future cash flows, weighted by the probability  The program involves different functions at central and 
of occurrence, on a risk adjustment and on a margin for  local level and aims to implement IFRS 9 and IFRS 17 
the services provided within the contract (“contractual  consistently at Group level.  
service margin”). A simplified approach (“Premium Allo-
cation Approach”) is permitted if the coverage period of 
the contract is less than one  year, or if the model used  IFRS 16 – Leases
for  assessment  provides  a  reasonable  approximation 
compared to the building block approach. The variable  On 13 January 2016 IFRS 16 “Leases” was published. 
fee approach (VFA) was also introduced, an alternative  The new standard introduces new requirements for rec-
model to the Building Block Approach which applies in  ognition, presentation in the financial statements and 
particular to profit-sharing contracts, for which the scope  disclosure of leases.
of application is very significant for the Group in consider-