Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 163  
In particular, the distinction between operating and finan- at an amount equal to the lease liability (eventually ad-
cial leases is eliminated for what concerns the lessee ac- justed by any prepaid or accrued lease payments relating 
counting: all leases require the recognition of a lease as- to the lease recognised in the statement of financial po-
set, which represents the right-of-use of the leased asset  sition immediately before the date of initial application). 
for the lease term, and a lease liability, which represents  The cumulative effect of initial application of the princi-
the obligation to pay rent payments. The accounting  ple, even if estimated by the Group as almost nil, will be 
treatment of leases is unchanged for the lessor. accounted for as an adjustment of the opening balance 
of retained earnings.
During 2018 the Group performed an impact assessment 
on the application of IFRS 16, with particular focus on  In applying IFRS 16, the Group will adopt the simplified 
Group Companies acting as lessees.   accounting treatment for short-term leases and low-value 
leases which allows lessees not to recognise any amount 
The Group does not estimate material impacts on share- of assets and liabilities in the financial statements, but 
holders’ equity deriving from the application of the re- only to recognise expenses for lease payments.
quirements of the new standard compared to the current 
rules of IAS 17. However, an increase of assets and lia- In the course of the ordinary business, the Group compa-
bilities is expected, deriving from the new accounting of  nies normally enter into leasing agreements as lessees. 
operating leases for lessees. Moreover, expenses for op- Mentioned agreements are mainly related to use of real 
erating lease payments will be split into two components:  estates used for business, company cars and office fur-
depreciation of right of use assets and interest expenses  niture and equipment. In some cases Group companies 
on lease liabilities. The final impact of the application of  acts also as lessor, mainly related to real estates rental 
new IFRS 16 at first time adoption will be linked to the  through operating lease. 
scope of lease contracts as at 1 January 2019 (in par-
ticular those with remaining lease term of more than 12  As at 31 December 2018, the Group undiscounted fu-
months), and market conditions which will impact the de- ture minimum lease payments under operating leases 
termination of discount rates for the calculation of lease  for Group lessees amounted to around € 750 mln. The 
liabilities and consequently right of use assets at initial  Group expects increase of assets and liabilities due to 
recognition. new leasing accounting rules in range of approximately 
this amount.
On first time adoption of the standard, the Group will 
adopt the simplified retrospective approach, choosing on  The new standard will be effective starting from financial 
a lease-by-lease basis to measure the right of use asset  years starting from 1 January 2019.
Other not significant changes for the Group  
Amendment EU Effective date Date of publication
Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payments Transactions 1 January  2018 December 2016
Amendments to IAS 40: Transfers of Investment Property  1 January  2018 December 2016
Annual Improvements to IFRS 2014-2016 1 January  2018 December 2016
IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration 1 January  2018 December 2016
IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments (issued on 7 June 2017) 1 January 2019 October 2018
Amendments to IFRS 9: Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation (issued on 12 October 2017) 1 Janaury 2019 March 2018