164 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
Balance Sheet – Assets
present value of the future cash flows expected to be de-
rived from the cash-generating units. The fair value of the 
Intangible assets 
CGU is determined on the basis of current market quota-
tion or usually adopted valuation techniques (mainly DDM 
In accordance with IAS 38, an intangible asset is recog- or alternatively Market Value Balance Sheet or appraisal 
nised if, and only if, it is identifiable and controllable and  value). The Dividend Discount Model is a variant of the 
it is probable that the expected future economic benefits  Cash flow method. In particular the Dividend Discount 
attributable to the asset will flow to the company and the  Model, in the excess capital methodology, states that the 
cost of the asset can be measured reliably.  economic value of an entity is equal to the discounted 
dividends flow calculated considering the minimum cap-
This category includes goodwill and other intangible as- ital requirements. Such models are based on projections 
sets, such as goodwill recognised in the separate finan- on budgets/forecasts approved by management or con-
cial statements of the consolidated companies, software  servative or prudential assumptions covering a maximum 
and purchased insurance portfolio. period of five years. Cash flow projections for a period 
longer than five years are extrapolated using estimated 
among others growth rates. The discount rates reflect the 
Goodwill free risk rate, adjusted to take into account specific risks. 
Should any previous impairment losses no longer exist, 
Goodwill is the sum of future benefits not separate- they cannot be reversed.
ly identifiable in a business combination. At the date of 
acquisition, the goodwill is equal to the excess between  For further details see paragraph “Information on consol-
the sum of the consideration transferred, including con- idation perimeter and Group companies” in the Notes.
tingent consideration, liabilities assumed towards the 
previous owners the fair value of non-controlling interests 
as well as, in a business combination achieved in stag- Other intangible assets 
es, the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity 
interest in the acquiree and the fair value (present value)  Intangible assets with finite useful life are measured at 
of net amount of the separately identifiable assets and  acquisition or production cost less any accumulated 
liabilities acquired. amortisation and impairment losses. The amortisation 
is based on the useful life and begins when the asset 
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less  is available for use. Specifically, the purchased software 
any impairment losses and it is no longer amortised. Ac- expenses are capitalised on the basis of the cost for pur-
cording to IAS 36, goodwill is not subject to amortization.  chase and usage. 
Realized gains and losses on investments in subsidiaries 
include the related goodwill. Goodwill is tested at least  The costs related to their development and maintenance 
annually in order to identify any impairment losses.  are charged to the profit and loss account of the period 
in which they are incurred.
The purpose of the impairment test on goodwill is to 
identify the existence of any impairment losses on the  Other intangible assets with indefinite useful life are not 
carrying amount recognised as intangible asset. In this  subject to amortization. They are periodically tested for 
context, cash-generating units to which the goodwill  impairment.
is allocated are identified and tested for impairment. 
Cash-generating units (CGU) units usually represent the  Gains or losses arising from de-recognition of an intangi-
consolidated units within the same primary segment in  ble asset are measured as the difference between the net 
each country. Any impairment is equal to the difference,  disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset 
if negative, between the carrying amount and the recov- and are recognised in the income statement when the 
erable amount, which is the higher between the fair value  asset is de-recognised.
of the cash-generating unit and its value in use, i.e. the 