Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 165  
Contractual relations with customers -  Similar criteria are applied for the initial recognition, the 
insurance contracts acquired in a business  amortization and the impairment test of other contrac-
combination or portfolio transfer tual relationships arising from customer lists of asset 
management sector, acquired in a business combination 
In case of acquisition of life and non-life insurance con- where the acquiree belongs to the financial segment.
tract portfolios in a business combination or portfolio 
transfer, the Group recognises an intangible asset, i.e. 
Tangible assets 
the value of the acquired contractual relationships (Value 
Of Business Acquired). The VOBA is the present value of 
the pre-tax future profit arising from the contracts in force  This item comprises land and buildings used for own ac-
at the purchase date, taking into account the probability  tivities and other tangible assets.
of renewals of the one year contracts in the non-life seg-
ment. The related deferred taxes are accounted for as 
liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. Land and buildings (self-used)
The VOBA is amortised over the effective life of the con- In accordance with IAS 16, this item includes land and 
tracts acquired, by using an amortization pattern reflect- buildings used for own activities.
ing the expected future profit recognition. Assumptions 
used  in  the  development  of  the  VOBA  amortization  Land and buildings (self-used) are measured applying the 
pattern are consistent with the ones applied in its initial  cost model set out by IAS 16. The cost of the self-used 
measurement. The amortization pattern is reviewed on a  property comprises purchase price and any directly at-
yearly basis to assess its reliability and, if applicable, to  tributable expenditure. 
verify the consistency with the assumptions used in the 
valuation of the corresponding insurance provisions. The depreciation is systematically calculated applying 
specific economic/technical rates which are determined 
The difference between the fair value of the insurance  locally in accordance with the residual value over the 
contracts acquired in a business combination or a port- useful economic life of each individual component of the 
folio transfer, and the insurance liabilities measured in  property
accordance with the acquirer’s accounting policies for 
the insurance contracts that it issues, is recognised as  Land and buildings (self-used) are measured at cost less 
intangible asset and amortised over the period in which  any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
the acquirer recognises the corresponding profits.  Land and agricultural properties are not depreciated but 
periodically tested for impairment losses. Costs, which 
The Generali Group applies this accounting treatment to  determine an increase in value, in the functionality or in 
the insurance liabilities assumed in the acquisition of life  the expected useful life of the asset, are directly charged 
and non-life insurance portfolios.  to the assets to which they refer and depreciated in ac-
cordance with the residual value over the assets’ use-
The future VOBA recoverable amount is nonetheless  ful economic life. Cost of the day-to-day servicing are 
tested on yearly basis.  charged to the profit and loss account.
As for as the life and non-life portfolios, the recoverable  Finance leases of land and buildings are accounted for in 
amount of the value of the in force business acquired is  conformity with IAS 17 and require that the overall cost 
carried out through the liability adequacy test (LAT) of  of the leasehold property is recognised as a tangible 
the insurance provisions — mentioned in the paragraph  asset and, as a counter-entry, the present value of the 
related to life and non-life insurance provisions— taking  minimum lease payments and the redemption cost of the 
into account, if any, the deferred acquisition costs recog- asset are recognised as a financial liability.
nised in the balance sheet. If any, the impairment losses 
are recognised in the profit or loss account and cannot 
be reversed in a subsequent period.