166 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
Other tangible assets  To measure the value of land and buildings (investment 
properties), the Generali Group applies the cost model 
Property, plant, equipment, furniture and property inven- set out by IAS 40, and adopts the depreciation criteria 
tories are classified in this item as property inventory.  defined by IAS 16. Please refer to the paragraph on land 
They are initially measured at cost and subsequently rec- and buildings (self-used) for information about criteria 
ognised net of any accumulated depreciation and impair- used by the Group and finance leases of land and build-
ment losses. They are systematically depreciated on the  ings.
basis of economic/technical rates determined in accord-
ance with their residual value over their useful economic 
life. In particular the inventories are measured at the low- Investments in subsidiaries, associated 
er of cost (including cost of purchase, cost of conversion  companies and joint ventures
and cost incurred the inventories to their present location 
and condition) and net realizable value, i.e. the estimated  This item includes investments in subsidiaries and asso-
selling price in the ordinary course of business less the  ciated companies valued at equity or at cost. Immaterial 
estimated cost of completion and costs to sell. investments in subsidiaries and associated companies, 
as well as investments in associated companies and in-
An item of property, plant and equipment and any signif- terests in joint ventures valued using the equity method 
icant part initially recognised is de-recognised upon dis- belong to this category. 
posal or when no future economic benefits are expect-
ed from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on  A list of such investments is shown in attachment to this 
de-recognition of the asset (calculated as the difference  Consolidated financial statement.
between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset) is included in the income statement 
when the asset is de-recognised. Financial investments – classification and 
measurement
The residual values, useful lives and methods of depre-
ciation of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at  Financial Instruments included in scope of IAS 39 are 
each financial year end and adjusted prospectively, if ap- classified as follows:
propriate. – Held to maturity
– Loans and receivables
– Available for sale financial assets
Reinsurance provisions 
– Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
The item comprises amounts ceded to reinsurers from in- The classification depends on the nature and purpose of 
surance provisions that fall under IFRS 4 scope. They are  holding financial instruments and is determined at initial 
accounted for in accordance with the accounting princi- recognition except for allowed reclassifications in rare 
ples applied to direct insurance contracts. circumstances and when the purpose of holding the fi-
nancial assets changes.
Investments
The financial investments are initially recognized at fair 
value plus, in the case of instruments not measured at 
Land and Buildings (Investment  fair value through profit or loss, the directly attributable 
Properties) transactions costs.
In accordance with IAS 40, this item includes land and  Non-derivative financial assets with fixed and determina-
buildings held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation  ble payments, those that the entity has the intention and 
or both. Land and buildings for own activities and prop- the ability to hold to maturity, unquoted and not available 
erty inventories are instead classified as tangible assets.  for sale are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Furthermore, assets for which the sale is expected to be 
completed within one year are classified as non-current 
assets or disposal groups classified as held for sale.