Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 167  
Held to maturity financial assets cash flows is immaterial. Gains or losses are recognised 
in the profit and loss account when the financial assets 
The  category  comprises  the  non-derivative  financial  are de-recognised or impaired as well as through the 
assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed  normal amortization process envisaged by the amortised 
maturity that a company has the positive intention and  cost principle.
ability to hold to maturity, other than loans and receiva-
bles and those initially designated as at fair value through 
profit or loss or as available for sale. The intent and ability  Available for sale financial assets
to hold investments to maturity must be demonstrated 
when initially acquired and at each reporting date.  Available for sale financial assets are accounted for at the 
settlement date at the fair value at the related transaction 
In the case of an early disposal (significant and not due  dates, plus the transaction costs directly attributable to 
to particular events) of said investments, any remaining  the acquisition.
investments must be reclassified as available for sale.
The unrealized gains and losses on available for sale fi-
Held to maturity investments are accounted for at settle- nancial assets arising out of subsequent changes in val-
ment date and measured initially at fair value and subse- ue are recognised in other comprehensive income in a 
quently at amortised cost using the effective interest rate  specific reserve until they are sold or impaired. At this 
method and considering any discounts or premiums ob- time the cumulative gains or losses previously recog-
tained at the time of the acquisition which are accounted  nised in other comprehensive income are accounted for 
for over the remaining term to maturity. in the profit and loss account. 
This category includes quoted and unquoted equities, 
Loans and receivables investment fund units (IFU) not held for trading, nor des-
ignated as financial assets at fair value through profit or 
This category comprises non-derivative financial assets  loss, and bonds, mainly quoted, designated as available 
with fixed or determinable payments, not quoted in an  for sale.
active market. It does not include financial assets held 
for trading and those designated as at fair value through  Interests on debt  financial instruments classified as 
profit or loss or as available for sale upon initial recogni- available for sale are measured using the effective inter-
tion. est rate with impact on profit or loss. Dividends related to 
equities classified in this category are reported in profit or 
In detail, the Generali Group includes in this category  loss when the shareholder’s right to receive payment is 
some unquoted bonds, mortgage loans, policy loans,  established, which usually coincides with the sharehold-
term deposits with credit institutions, deposits under re- ers’ resolution.
insurance business accepted, repurchase agreements, 
receivables from banks or customers accounted for by  The Group evaluates whether the ability and intention 
companies of the financial segment, and the mandatory  to sell its Available for sale financial assets in the near 
deposit reserve with the central bank. The Group’s trade  term is still appropriate. When, in rare circumstances, the  
receivables are instead classified as other receivables in  Group is unable to trade these financial assets due to 
the balance sheet. inactive markets and management’s intention to do so 
significantly changes in the foreseeable future, the Group 
Loans and receivables are accounted for at settlement  may elect to reclassify these financial assets. Reclassi-
date and measured initially at fair value and subsequently  fication to loans and receivables is permitted when the 
at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method  financial assets meet the definition of loans and receiv-
and considering any discounts or premiums obtained at  ables and the Group has the intent and ability to hold 
the time of the acquisition which are accounted for over  these assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity. 
the remaining term to maturity. Short-term receivables  Reclassification to the held to maturity category is per-
are not discounted because the effect of discounting  mitted only when the entity has the ability and intention 
to hold the financial asset accordingly.