168 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
For a financial asset reclassified from the available-for  financial assets designated at fair value through profit or 
sale category, the fair value carrying amount at the date  loss using the fair value option at designation, as these 
of reclassification becomes its new amortised cost and  instruments cannot be reclassified after initial recognition
any previous gain or loss on the asset that has been rec-
ognised in equity is amortised to profit or loss over the 
remaining life of the investment using the EIR. Any differ- Derecognition
ence between the new amortised cost and the maturity 
amount is also amortised over the remaining life of the  A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a finan-
asset using the EIR. If the asset is subsequently deter- cial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is 
mined to be impaired, then the amount recorded in equity  de-recognised when:
is reclassified to the income statement. – the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have 
expired;
– the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or  flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to 
loss pay the received cash flows in full without material de-
lay to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; 
This category comprises financial assets held for trading,  and either (a) the Group has transferred substantially all 
i.e. acquired mainly to be sold in a short term, and finan- the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Group 
cial assets that upon initial recognition are designated as  has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the 
at fair value through profit or loss. risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred con-
trol of the asset.
In particular both bonds and equities, mainly quoted, and 
all derivative assets, held for both trading and hedging  When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash 
purposes, are included in this category. Financial assets  flows from an asset or has entered into a pass-through 
at fair value through profit or loss also take into account  arrangement, it evaluates if and to what extent it has re-
investments back to policies where the investment risk  tained the risks and rewards of ownership. When it has 
is borne by the policyholders and back to pension funds  neither transferred nor retained substantially all of the 
in order to significantly reduce the valuation mismatch  risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control 
between assets and related liabilities. of the asset, the asset is recognised to the extent of the 
Group’s continuing involvement in the asset. In that case, 
Structured instruments, whose embedded derivatives  the Group also recognises an associated liability. The 
cannot be separated from the host contracts, are classi- transferred asset and the associated liability are meas-
fied as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. ured on a basis that reflects the rights and obligations 
that the Group has retained. Continuing involvement that 
The financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are  takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset 
accounted for at settlement date and are measured at  is measured at the lower of the original carrying amount 
fair value. Their unrealized and realized gains and losses  of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration 
at the end of the period are immediately accounted for in  that the Group could be required to repay.
the profit and loss account.
Receivables
The Group evaluates its financial assets held for trading, 
other than derivatives, to determine whether the intention 
to sell them in the near term is still appropriate. When, in  This item includes receivables arising out of direct insur-
rare circumstances, the Group is unable to trade these  ance and reinsurance operations, and other receivables.
financial assets due to inactive markets and manage-
ment’s intention to sell them in the foreseeable future 
significantly changes, the Group may elect to reclassi- Receivables arising out of direct insurance 
fy them. The reclassification to loans and receivables,   and reinsurance operations
Available for sale or held to maturity depends on the 
nature of the asset. This evaluation does not affect any 