Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 169  
Receivables on premiums written in course of collection  counting policies prior to the transition to international 
and receivables from intermediates and brokers, co-in- accounting principles. In this item acquisition costs paid 
surers and reinsurers are included in this item. They are  before the subscription of multi-year contracts to amor-
accounted for at their fair value at acquisition date and  tize within the duration of the contracts are included.
subsequently at their presumed recoverable amounts.
Deferred tax assets
Other receivables
Deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible tempo-
This item includes all other receivables, which do not  rary differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
have an insurance or tax nature. They are accounted for  and liabilities and the corresponding amounts recognized 
at fair value at recognition and subsequently at their pre- for tax purposes.
sumed recoverable amounts.
In the presence of tax losses carried forward or unused 
tax credits, deferred tax assets are recognized to the ex-
Other assets
tent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be 
available against which the aforementioned tax losses or 
Non-current assets or disposal groups classified as held  unused tax credits.
for sale, deferred acquisition costs, tax receivables, de-
ferred tax assets, and other assets are classified in this  Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside prof-
item. it or loss is recognised outside profit or loss. Deferred 
tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying 
transaction either in other comprehensive income or di-
Non-current assets or disposal groups  rectly in equity.
classified as held for sale
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are off-
This  item  comprises  non-current  assets  or  disposal  set if a legally enforceable right exists to offset current 
groups classified as held for sale under IFRS 5. Non-cur- tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the 
rent assets and disposal groups are classified as held for  deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the 
sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered principally  same taxation authority.
through a sale transaction rather than through continuing 
use. The criteria for held for sale classification is regard- Deferred tax assets are measured at the tax rates that are 
ed as met only when the sale is highly probable and the  expected to be applied in the year when the asset is real-
asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale  ized, based on information available at the reporting date.
in its present condition. Management must be commit-
ted to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for  Deferred tax assets are not recognized in the following 
recognition as a completed sale within one year from the  cases provided in paragraph 24 of IAS 12:
date of classification. – when the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible 
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition 
They are measured at the lower of their carrying amount  of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a busi-
and fair value less costs to sell. ness combination and, at the time of the transaction, 
affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit 
Discontinued operations are excluded from the results  or loss
of continuing operations and are presented as a single  – in respect of deductible temporary differences associ-
amount in profit or loss after tax from discontinued oper- ated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and 
ations in the income statement. interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are rec-
ognised only to the extent that it is probable that the 
temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable 
Deferred acquisition costs future and taxable profit will be available against which 
the temporary differences can be utilized.
Concerning deferred acquisition costs, according to re- – for all deductible temporary differences between the 
quirements of IFRS 4, the Group continued to apply ac- carrying amount of assets or liabilities and their tax 