170 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
base to the extent that it is probable that taxable in- liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. Acquisition 
come will be available, against which the deductible  commissions related to these products are accounted for 
temporary differences can be utilised. in accordance with the IAS 18 treatment of the invest-
ment management service component. They are recog-
nised along the product life by reference to the stage of 
Tax receivables completion of the service rendered. Therefore, acquisi-
tion commissions are incremental costs recognised as 
Receivables related to current income taxes as defined  assets, which are amortised throughout the whole policy 
and regulated by IAS 12 are classified in this item. They  term on a straight line approach, reasonably assuming 
are accounted for based on the tax laws in force in the  that the management service is constantly rendered.
countries where the consolidated subsidiaries have their 
offices. Deferred commissions for investment management ser-
vices are amortised, after assessing their recoverability in 
Current income tax relating to items recognised directly  accordance with IAS 36.
in equity are recognised in equity and not in the income 
statement.
Cash and cash equivalents
Other assets Cash in hand and equivalent assets, cash and balances 
with banks payable on demand and with central banks 
The item mainly includes accrued income and prepay- are accounted for in this item at their carrying amounts.
ments, specifically accrued interest from bonds. 
Short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily con-
It also comprises deferred commissions for investment  vertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject 
management services related to investment contracts.  to an insignificant risk of changes in value are included in 
Deferred fee and commission expenses include acqui- this item. Investments are qualified as cash equivalents 
sition commissions related to investment contracts with- only when they have a short maturity of 3 months or less 
out DPF fair valued as provided for by IAS 39 as financial  from the date of the acquisition.