Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 171  
Balance sheet – Liabilities and 
rencies and from the translation of subsidiaries’ financial 
equity statements denominated in foreign currencies.
Shareholder’s equity Reserve for unrealised gains and losses on 
available for sale financial assets
Shareholder’s equity attributable to the  The item includes gains or losses arising from changes 
Group in the fair value of available for sale financial assets, as 
previously described in the corresponding item of finan-
Share capital cial investments.
Ordinary shares are recognized as share capital and their  The amounts are accounted for net of the related de-
value equals the nominal value. ferred taxes and deferred policyholder liabilities.
Other equity instruments Reserve for other unrealised gains and losses 
through equity 
The item includes preference shares and equity compo-
nents of compound financial instruments. The item includes the cash flow hedging derivatives re-
serve, the reserve for hedges of net investments in for-
eign operations. This item includes gains or losses on 
Capital reserve cash flow hedging instruments and gains or losses on 
hedging instruments of a net investment in a foreign op-
The item includes the share premium account of the Par- eration. In addition, this item also includes the profits and 
ent Company. losses relating to defined benefit plans and the part of the 
balance sheet reserves whose the variation is part of the 
comprehensive income of participations and those relat-
Revenue reserve and other reserves ing to non-current assets or disposal groups classified 
as held for sale.
The item comprises retained earnings or losses adjusted 
for the effect of changes arising from the first-time appli-
cation of IAS/IFRS, reserves for share-based payments,  Result of the period
equalisation and catastrophe provisions not recognised 
as insurance provisions according to IFRS 4, legal re- The item refers to the Group consolidated result of the 
serves envisaged by the Italian Civil Code and special  period. Dividend payments are accounted for after the 
laws before the adoption of IAS, as well as reserves from  approval of the shareholders’ general meeting.
the consolidation process.
Shareholder’s equity attributable to 
Own shares minority interests
As provided for by IAS 32, the item includes equity instru- The item comprises equity instruments attributable to mi-
ments of the Parent company held by the same company  nority interests. 
or by its consolidated subsidiaries.
It also includes the reserve for unrealized gains and loss-
es on available for sale investments and any other gains 
Reserve for currency translation differences or losses recognized directly in equity attributable to mi-
nority interests.
The item comprises the exchange differences to be 
recognised in equity in accordance with IAS 21, which 
derive from accounting for transactions in foreign cur-