172 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
Provisions Shadow accounting
Provisions for risks and charges are provided only when  In order to mitigate the valuation mismatch between fi-
it is deemed necessary to respond to an obligation (legal  nancial investments carried at fair value according to IAS 
or implicit) arising from a past event and it is probable  39 and insurance provisions which are accounted for in 
that an outflow of resources whose amount can be relia- accordance with previous local GAAP, shadow account-
bly estimated, as required by IAS 37. ing is applied to insurance contracts and investments 
contracts with DPF. This accounting practice attributes 
to the policyholders part of the difference between IAS/
Insurance provisions
IFRS valuation of the basis on which the profit sharing is 
determined and valuation which is used to determine the 
This item comprises amounts, gross of ceded reinsur- profit sharing actually paid. This accounting treatment is 
ance, of liabilities related to insurance contracts and in- included in the deferred policyholder liabilities in the life 
vestment contracts with discretionary participation fea- insurance provisions.
tures.
The policyholders’ share is calculated on the average 
contractual percentage for the policyholder participation, 
Life insurance policies as the local regulation already foresees the protection of 
guaranteed obligations through the recognition of addi-
In accordance with IFRS 4, policies of the life segment  tional provisions for interest rate risk if future financial re-
are classified as insurance contracts or investment con- turns based on a proper time horizon are not sufficient to 
tracts based on the significance of the underlying insur- cover the financial guaranties included in the contract.
ance risk.
The accounting item arising from the shadow accounting 
Classification requires the following steps: application is included in the carrying amount of insur-
– identification of the characteristics of products (option,  ance liabilities whose adequacy is tested by the liability 
discretionary participation feature, etc.) and services  adequacy test (LAT) according to IFRS 4 (refer to para-
rendered; graph Details on insurance and investment contracts), to 
– determination of the level of insurance risk in the con- rectify the IAS/IFRS carrying amount of insurance provi-
tract; and sions.
– application of the international principle.
The main accounting effect of the shadow accounting 
is double fold: on the one hand, the recognition of the 
Insurance contracts and investment contracts  policyholders’ share of unrealized gains and losses on 
with DPF  available for sale financial assets in the deferred poli-
cyholders’ liabilities; on the other, the insurer’s share is 
Premiums, payments and change in the insurance provi- recognised in equity. If financial instruments are fair val-
sion related to products whose insurance risk is consid- ued through profit or loss or financial investments are 
ered significant (e.g. term insurance, whole life and en- impaired, the policyholders’ share on the difference be-
dowment with annual premiums, life contingent annuities  tween the market value and valuation used to determine 
and contracts containing an option to elect at maturity a  the return which the profit sharing is based on (e.g. the 
life contingent annuity at rates granted at inception, long- carrying amount in segregated fund) is recognised in the 
term health insurance and unit-linked with sum assured  profit and loss account. The shadow accounting also al-
in case of death significantly higher than the value of the  lows the recognition of an insurance liability related to 
fund) or investment contracts with discretionary partici- unrealized gains on available for sale financial assets  
pation feature –DPF – (e.g. policies linked to segregated  linked to contracts with discretionary participation fea-
funds, contracts with additional benefits that are con- ture, up to the amount of the increase in value of these 
tractually based on the economic result of the compa- assets due to the change of market rates.
ny) are accounted for in accordance with previous local 
GAAP. Gross premiums are recognised as a revenue, net 
of cancellations of the period, and ceded premiums are 
recognised as expenses of the period. 