Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 173  
Investment contracts rates or mortality, are classified as provisions for the lia-
bility adequacy test.
Investment  contracts  without  DPF  and  that  do  not 
have a significant investment risk, mainly include unit/ As previously mentioned, insurance provisions include 
index-linked policies and pure capitalization contracts.  deferred policyholder liabilities related to contracts with 
These products are accounted for in accordance with  DPF. The recognition of the deferred policyholder liabil-
IAS 39 as follows: ities is made in accordance to shadow accounting, as 
– the products are recognised as financial liabilities at  already mentioned in paragraph “Shadow accounting” of 
fair value or at amortised cost. In detail, linked prod- section Insurance Provision.
ucts classified as investment contracts are fair valued 
through profit or loss, while pure capitalization policies 
are generally valued at amortised cost; Liability adequacy test (LAT)
– fee and commission income and expenses are recog-
nised in the profit and loss account. Specifically, IAS 39  In accordance with IFRS 4, in order to verify the ade-
and IAS 18 require that they are separately identified  quacy of the reserves a Liability Adequacy Test (LAT) is 
and classified in the different components of: (i) origi- performed. The aim of the test is to verify if the technical 
nation, to be charged in the profit and loss account at  provisions - inclusive of deferred policyholders liabilities 
the date of the issue of the product; and (ii) investment  - are adequate to cover the current value of future cash 
management service, to be recognised throughout the  flows related to insurance contracts.
whole policy term by reference to the stage of comple-
tion of the service rendered; The liability adequacy test is performed through the com-
– fee and commission income and incremental costs of  parison of the IFRS reserves (which include the impact 
pure capitalization contracts without DPF (other than  of “shadow accounting”), net of any deferred acquisition 
administration costs and other non-incremental costs)  costs or intangible assets related to these contracts, with 
are included in the amortised cost measurement; the current value of future cash flows related to insurance 
– the risk component of linked products is unbundled,  contracts.
if possible, and accounted for as insurance contracts
The abovementioned amount also includes the costs of 
embedded financial options and guarantees, which are 
Life insurance provisions measured with a market-consistent methodology. Tech-
nical reserves which are subject to the Liability Adequacy 
Life insurance provisions are related to insurance con- Test also include the interest rate risk provisions as re-
tracts and investment contracts with discretionary par- quired by local regulations.
ticipation features. These provisions are accounted for 
based on local GAAP, in compliance with IFRS 4. The insurance contracts modelling and best estimates 
assumptions used are consistent with the evaluation 
Liabilities related to insurance contracts and investment  process of the insurance provisions in accordance with 
contracts with discretionary participation features are  Solvency II and subject to audit process  in compliance 
determined analytically for each kind of contract on the  with the current regulation.
basis of appropriate actuarial assumptions. They meet all 
the existing commitments based on best estimates.  Each inadequacy is charged to the profit and loss ac-
count, initially reducing deferred acquisition costs and 
These actuarial assumptions take into consideration the  value of business acquired, and subsequently account-
most recent demographic tables of each country where  ing for a provision.
the risk is underwritten, aspects of mortality, morbidity, 
determination of risk-free rates, expenses and inflation. 
The tax charge is based on laws in force. Non-life insurance provisions
Among life insurance provisions, provisions in addition  The local GAAP for each country is applied to non-life 
to mathematical provisions, already envisaged by the lo- insurance provisions, since all the existing policies fall 
cal regulations in case of adverse changes in the interest  under IFRS 4 scope. In conformity with the international 
standard, no provisions for future claims are recognised, 