174 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
in line with the derecognition of the equalisation and ca- Other financial liabilities
tastrophe provisions and some additional components 
of the unearned premiums provisions, carried out on the  The item includes financial liabilities within the scope of 
date of the first-time application. IAS 39 that are not classified as at fair value through prof-
it or loss and are instead measured at amortised cost.
The  provisions  for  unearned  premiums  includes  the 
pro-rata temporis provision, which is the amount of gross  This item comprises both subordinated liabilities, which, 
premiums written allocated to the following financial peri- in the case of bankruptcy, are to be repaid only after the 
ods, and the provision for unexpired risks, which provides  claims of all other creditors have been met, and hybrid 
for claims and expenses in excess of the related unearned  instruments. 
premiums.
Bond instruments issued are measured at issue price, net 
The provisions for outstanding claims are determined by  of costs directly attributed to the transaction. The differ-
a prudent assessment of damages, based on objective  ence between the aforesaid price and the reimbursement 
and prospective considerations of all predictable charges.  price is recognised along the duration of the issuance in 
the profit and loss account using the effective interest 
Provisions are deemed adequate to cover payments of  rate method.   
damages and the cost of settlement of claims related to 
accident occurred during the year but not yet reported. Furthermore, it includes liabilities to banks or customers, 
deposits received from reinsurers, bonds issued, other 
The non-life insurance provisions meets the requirements  loans and financial liabilities at amortised cost related to 
of the liability adequacy test according to IFRS 4. investment contracts that do not fall under IFRS 4 scope.
Amounts ceded to reinsurers from insurance provisions 
are determined in accordance with the criteria applied for  Derecognition
the direct insurance and accepted reinsurance.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation 
under the liability is discharged or cancelled, or expires. 
Financial liabilities
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss and  from the same lender on substantially different terms, or 
financial liabilities at amortised cost are included in this  the terms of an existing liability are substantially modi-
item. fied, such an exchange or modification is treated as the 
derecognition of the original liability and the recognition 
of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying 
Financial liabilities at fair value through  amounts is recognised in the income statement.
profit or loss
The item refers to financial liabilities at fair value through 
profit or loss, as defined and regulated by IAS 39. In de-
tail, it includes the financial liabilities related to investment 
contracts where the investment risk is borne by the poli-
cyholders as well as derivative liabilities.