Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 175  
Payables Deferred tax liabilities
Payables arising out insurance operations Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable tem-
porary differences between the carrying amount of as-
The item includes payables arising out of insurance and  sets and liabilities and their tax base, Deferred tax liabil-
reinsurance operations. ities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to 
be applied in the year when temporary differences will be  
taxable, are based on the tax rates and tax laws enacted 
Other payables or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
This item mainly includes provisions for the Italian ”tratta- Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside prof-
mento di fine rapporto” (employee severance pay). These  it or loss is recognised outside profit or loss. Deferred 
provisions are accounted for in accordance with IAS 19  tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying 
(see paragraph Other liabilities). transaction either in other comprehensive income or di-
rectly in equity. 
Other liabilities
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are off-
set if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current 
The item comprises liabilities not elsewhere accounted  tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the 
for. In detail, it includes liabilities directly associated with  deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the 
non-current assets and disposal groups classified as  same taxation authority.
held for sale, tax payables and deferred tax liabilities and 
deferred fee and commission income. Deferred tax liabilities are not recognized in the following  
cases provided for in paragraph 15 of IAS 12:
– When the deferred tax liability arises from the initial 
Liabilities directly associated with non- recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a trans-
current assets and disposal groups  action that is not a business combination and, at the 
classified as held for sale  time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting 
profit nor taxable profit or loss
The  item  includes  liabilities  directly  associated  with  – In respect of taxable temporary differences associated 
non-current assets and disposal groups classified as  with investments in subsidiaries, associates and inter-
held for sale, as defined by IFRS 5. ests in joint ventures, when the timing of the reversal 
of the temporary differences can be controlled and it 
is probable that the temporary differences will not re-
verse in the foreseeable future.
Tax payables
The item includes payables due to tax authorities for cur-
rent taxes. Current income tax relating to items recog-
nised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in 
the income statement.