176 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
Other liabilities Deferred fee and commission income includes acqui-
sition loadings related to investment contracts without 
This item includes provisions for defined benefit plans,  DPF, which are classified as financial liabilities at fair val-
such as termination benefit liabilities and other long-term  ue through profit or loss, according to IAS 39. 
employee benefits (the Italian provision for “trattamento 
di fine rapporto” is excluded and classified as other pay- Acquisition loadings related to these products are ac-
ables). In compliance with IAS 19, these provisions are  counted for in accordance with IAS 18 treatment of the 
measured according to the project unit credit method.  investment management service component during the 
This method implies that the defined benefit liability is  product life. They are recognised by reference to the 
influenced by many variables, such as mortality, employ- stage of completion of the service rendered. 
ee turnover, salary trends, expected inflation, expected 
rate of return on investments, etc. The liability recognised  Therefore, the acquisition commissions have been reclas-
in the balance sheet represents the net present value of  sified in the balance sheet, as liabilities to be released to 
the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of plan  the profit and loss account during the life of the product.
assets (if any), adjusted for any actuarial gains and losses 
and any past service costs not amortised. The rate used 
to discount future cash flows is determined by reference 
to market yields on high-quality corporate bonds. The 
actuarial assumptions are periodically tested to confirm 
their consistency. The actuarial gains and losses arising 
from subsequent changes in variables used to make es-
timates are recognised shall be accounted for in other 
comprehensive income without any possibility of recy-
cling to profit and loss.