Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 177  
Profit and loss account Other income
Income
The item includes: revenue arising from sale of goods 
and rendering of services other than financial services; 
Earned premiums other insurance income; gains on foreign currency ac-
counted for under IAS 21; realized gains and reversals of 
The item includes gross earned premiums on insurance  impairment on tangible assets and other assets; and any 
contracts and investment contracts with discretionary  gains recognised on the re-measurement of non-current 
participation features, net of earned premiums ceded. assets or disposal groups classified as held for sale.
Fee and commission income Expenses
The item includes fee and commission income for finan- Net insurance benefit and claims
cial services rendered by companies belonging to the fi-
nancial segment and fee and commission income related  The item includes the amounts paid in respect of claims 
to investment contracts. occurring during the period, maturities and surrenders, as 
well as the amounts of changes in insurance provisions 
that fall under IFRS 4 scope, net of recoveries and rein-
Net income from financial instruments at  surance. It also comprises changes in the provision for 
fair value through profit or loss deferred policyholders liabilities with impact on the profit 
and loss account.
The item comprises realized gains and losses, interests, 
dividends and unrealized gains and losses on financial 
assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. Fee and commission expenses and 
expenses from financial service activities
Income from subsidiaries, associated  The item includes fee and commission expenses for fi-
companies and joint ventures nancial services received by companies belonging to the 
financial segment and fee and commission expenses re-
The item comprises income from investments in subsid- lated to investment contracts.
iaries, associated companies and joint ventures, which 
are accounted for in the corresponding asset items of the 
balance sheet. Expenses from subsidiaries, associated 
companies and joint ventures
Income from financial instruments and  The item includes expenses from investments in subsid-
other investments iaries, associated companies and joint ventures, which 
are accounted for in the corresponding asset items of the 
The item includes income from financial instruments  balance sheet.
not at fair value through profit or loss and from land and 
buildings (investment properties). In detail, it includes 
mainly  interests  from  financial  instruments  measured  Expenses from financial instruments and 
using the effective interest method, other income from  other instruments
investments, including dividends recognised when the  The item comprises expenses from land and buildings 
right arises, income from properties used by third parties,  (investment properties) and from financial instruments 
realized gains from financial assets, financial liabilities  not at fair value through profit or loss. It includes: inter-
and investment properties and reversals of impairment. est expense; expenses on land and buildings (invest-
ment properties), such as general property expenses and 
maintenance and repair expenses not recognised in the 
carrying amount of investment properties; realized loss-
es from financial assets, financial liabilities and land and 