178 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
Comprehensive income
buildings (investment properties); depreciations and im-
pairment of such investments.
The statement of comprehensive income was introduced 
by the revised IAS 1 issued in September 2007 by the 
Acquisition and administration costs IASB, approved by the EC Regulation No 1274/2008. The 
statement comprises items of income and expenses dif-
The item comprises acquisition commissions, other ac- ferent from those included in profit or loss, recognised 
quisition costs and administration costs related to con- directly in equity other than those changes resulting from 
tracts that fall under IFRS 4 scope. Other acquisition  transactions with shareholders. 
costs and administration costs related to investment 
contracts without discretionary participation features are  In accordance with the ISVAP (now IVASS) Regulation 
also included, as well as overheads and personnel ex- n.7/2007 as subsequently amended, items of income 
penses for investment management, and administration  and expenses are net of taxes as well as net of gains 
expenses of non-insurance companies. and losses on available for sale assets attributable to the 
policyholders according to the deferred policyholders li-
abilities calculation.
Other expenses
The transactions with owners and the result of compre-
The item includes: other insurance expenses; allocation  hensive income are presented in the statement of chang-
to provisions; losses on foreign currency accounted for  es in equity.
under IAS 21; realized losses, impairment and depre-
ciation of tangible assets not elsewhere allocated; and 
Statement of changes in equity
amortization of intangible assets. It also comprises any 
loss on the re-measurement of non-current assets or dis-
posal groups classified as held for sale, other than dis- The statement was prepared in accordance with the re-
continued operations. quirements of the ISVAP (now IVASS). 7 of 13 July 2007 
as subsequently amended, and explains all the variations 
of equity.
Capitalization of borrowing costs
Change of the closing balance 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of an asset that necessarily 
take a substantial period of time to get ready for its in- This section comprises changes of the closing balance of 
tended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of  the previous financial year determined by the correction 
the asset. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the  of errors or changes in accounting policies (IAS 8) and 
period in which they occur. Borrowing costs consist of in- the recognition of gains or losses arising from the first 
terest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection  time application of accounting standards (IFRS 1).
with the borrowing of funds.
Allocation 
Income taxes
This section comprises the allocation of the profit or loss 
The item includes income taxes for the period and for  of the year, the allocation of the previous year profit or 
previous years, deferred taxes and tax losses carried  loss into the capital reserves, increases in capital and 
back. other reserves (for the issuance of new shares, equity in-
struments, stock options or derivatives on own shares, 
for the sale of shares pursuant to IAS 32.33, for the re-
classification to equity instruments previously recognized 
in liabilities and, in the consolidated financial statements, 
for changes in scope of consolidation), changes within 