Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 179  
Cash Flows statement
equity reserves (es. allocation of surplus capital, stock 
option exercise, transfer of revaluation reserves related 
to tangible and intangible assets to retained earnings  The report, prepared using the indirect method, is drawn 
in accordance with IAS 38.87 and IAS 16.41 etc.), the  up in accordance with the ISVAP (now IVASS) require-
changes in gains and losses recognized directly in equity. ments n. 7 of 13 July 2007, as amended by Measure 
ISVAP (now IVASS)  No. 2784 of 8 March 2010, and dis-
tinguishing its component items among operating, in-
Reclassification adjustments to 
vesting and financing activities.
profit or loss 
Other information
This section comprises gains or losses previously recog-
nized in equity, that are reclassified to the profit or loss 
Fair value
according to IFRSs (e.g. following the transfer of a finan-
cial asset available for sale).
IFRS 13 - Fair Value Measurement provides guidance on 
fair value measurement and requires disclosures about 
Transfer
fair value measurements, including the classification of fi-
nancial assets and liabilities in fair value hierarchy levels.
This section comprises the distribution of ordinary or 
extraordinary dividends, decreases in capital and other  With reference to the investments, Generali Group meas-
reserves (for redemption of shares, equity instruments  ures financial assets and liabilities at fair value in the fi-
and distributable reserves, the purchase of own shares,  nancial statements, or discloses the contrary in the notes.
for the reclassification of liabilities previously recognized 
in equity instruments and, in the consolidated financial  Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an 
statements, for changes in scope of consolidation) and  asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transac-
the attribution of profit or loss recognized directly in eq- tion between market participants at the measurement 
uity and in other balance sheet items (i.e. gains or losses  date (exit price). In particular, an orderly transaction 
on cash flow hedging instruments allocated to the carry- takes place in the principal or most advantageous mar-
ing amount of hedged instruments). ket at the measurement date under current market con-
ditions.
Changes in ownership interests 
A fair value measurement assumes that the transaction 
to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
This section comprises the effects capita transaction of  (a) in the principal market for the asset or liability; or
the subsidiaries, that do not result in the loss of control. (b) in the absence of a principal market, in the most ad-
vantageous market for the asset or liability.
Existence 
The fair value is equal to market price if market informa-
tion are available (i.e. relative trading levels of identical 
This section comprises the equity components and gains  or similar instruments) into an active market, which is 
or losses directly recognized in equity at the end of the  defined as a market where the items traded within the 
reporting period.  market are homogeneous, willing buyers and sellers can 
normally be found at any time and prices are available to 
The statement illustrates all changes net of taxes and  the public. 
gains and losses arising from the valuation of financial 
assets available for sale, attributable to policyholders  If there isn’t an active market, a valuation technique 
and accounted for in the insurance liabilities. should be used which shall maximise the observable in-
puts. If the fair value cannot be measured reliably, am-
ortised cost is used as the best estimate in determining 
the fair value.