180 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
As for measurement and disclosure, the fair value de- adequate valuation techniques, which shall maximize the 
pends on the unit of account, depending on whether the  market observable inputs and limit the use of unobserv-
asset or liability is a stand-alone asset or liability, a group  able inputs:
of assets, a group of liabilities or a group of assets and  – Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active 
liabilities  in accordance with the related IFRS.  markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity 
can access at the measurement date. 
However  when  determining  fair  value,  the  valuation  – Level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included with-
should reflect its use if in combination with other assets. in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, 
either directly or indirectly (i.e. quoted prices for similar 
With reference to non-financial assets, fair value meas- assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for 
urement of a non-financial asset takes into account a  identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that 
market participant’s ability to generate economic bene- are not active; inputs other than quoted prices that are 
fits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by  observable for the asset or liability; market-corroborat-
selling it to another market participant that would use the  ed inputs).
asset in its highest and best use. The highest and best  – Level 3: inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or 
use of a non-financial asset takes into account the use of  liability, which reflect the assumptions that market par-
the asset that is physically possible, legally permissible  ticipants would use when pricing the asset or liability, 
and financially feasible. However, an entity’s current use  including assumptions about risk (of the model used 
of a non-financial asset is presumed to be its highest and  and of inputs used).
best use unless market or other factors suggest that a 
different use by market participants would maximise the  The fair value measurement is categorised in its entirety 
value of the asset. in the same level of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest 
level input that is significant to the entire measurement. 
For the liabilities, the fair value is represented by the  Assessing the significance of a particular input to the en-
price that would be paid to transfer a liability in an or- tire measurement requires judgement, taking into account 
derly transaction in the principal (or most advantageous)  factors specific to the asset or liability.
market at the measurement date under current market 
conditions (i.e. an exit price). A fair value measurement developed using a present value 
technique might be categorised within Level 2 or Level 3, 
When a quoted price for the transfer of an identical or  depending on the inputs that are significant to the entire 
a similar liability or entity’s own equity instrument is not  measurement and the level of the fair value hierarchy with-
available and the identical item is held by another par- in which those inputs are categorised. 
ty as an asset, an entity shall measure the fair value of 
the liability or equity instrument from the perspective of  If an observable input requires an adjustment using an 
a market participant that holds the identical item as an  unobservable input and that adjustment results in a signif-
asset at the measurement date. icantly higher or lower fair value measurement, the result-
ing measurement would be categorised within the level 
attributable to the input with the lowest level utilized.
Fair value hierarchy
Adequate controls have been set up to monitor all meas-
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value in the consol- urements including those provided by third parties. If 
idated financial statements are measured and classified  these checks show that the measurement is not con-
in accordance with the fair value hierarchy in IFRS13,  sidered as market corroborated the instrument must be 
which consists of three levels based on the observability  classified in level 3. In this case, generally the main inputs 
of inputs within the corresponding valuation techniques  used in the valuation techniques are volatility, interest rate, 
used.  yield curves, credit spreads, dividend estimates and for-
eign exchange rates.
The fair value hierarchy levels are based on the type of 
inputs used to determine the fair value with the use of 