Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 181  
Valuation techniques In the opposite case, the fair value is determined using 
the market and income approach. Primary inputs to the 
Valuation techniques are used when a quoted price is  market approach are quoted prices for identical or com-
not available or shall be appropriate in the circumstances  parable assets in active markets where the comparability 
and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair  between security and benchmark defines the fair value 
value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs  level. The income approach in most cases means a dis-
and minimising the use of unobservable inputs. counted cash flow method estimating the present value 
of future dividends. Depending on the observability of 
Single or multiple valuation techniques valuation tech- these parameters, the security is classified in level 2 or 
nique will be appropriate. If multiple valuation techniques  level 3.  
are used to measure fair value, the results shall be evalu-
ated considering the reasonableness of the range of val- – Investments fund units
ues indicated by those results. A fair value measurement 
is the point within that range that is most representative  Generally, if available and if the market is defined as ac-
of fair value in the circumstances.  tive, fair value is equal to the market price.
Three widely used valuation techniques are: In the opposite case, the fair value of IFU is mainly de-
– market approach: uses prices and other relevant in- termined using net asset values (NAV) provided by the 
formation generated by market transactions involving  fund’s managers provided by the subjects responsible 
identical or comparable (i.e. similar) assets, liabilities or  for the NAV calculation. This value is based on the valua-
a group of assets and liabilities; tion of the underlying assets carried out through the use 
– cost approach: reflects the amount that would be re- of the most appropriate approach and inputs, eventually 
quired currently to replace the service capacity of an  adjusted for illiquidity and consequently hierarchized in 
asset; and accordance with the quality of used inputs. Moreover, 
– income approach: converts future amounts to a single  depending on how the share value is collected, directly 
current (i.e. discounted) amount. from public providers or through counterparts, the ap-
propriate hierarchy level is assigned. If this NAV equals 
the price at which the quote can be effectively traded 
Application to assets and liabilities on the market in any moment, the Group considers this 
value comparable to the market price.
– Debt securities 
– Private equity funds and Hedge funds
Generally, if available and if the market is defined as ac-
tive, fair value is equal to the market price. Generally, if available and if the market is defined as ac-
tive, fair value is equal to the market price.
In the opposite case, the fair value is determined using 
the market and income approach. Primary inputs to the  In the opposite case, the fair value of private equity funds 
market approach are quoted prices for identical or com- and hedge funds is generally expressed as the net asset 
parable assets in active markets where the comparability  value at the balance sheet date, determined using peri-
between security and benchmark defines the fair value  odical net asset value and audited financial statements 
level. The income approach in most cases means a dis- provided by fund administrators. If at the balance sheet 
counted cash flow method where either the cash flow or  date, such information is not available, the latest official 
the discount curve is adjusted to reflect credit risk and  net asset value is used. The fair value of these invest-
liquidity risk, using interest rates and yield curves com- ments is also closely monitored by a team of profession-
monly observable at frequent intervals. Depending on the  als within the Group.
observability of these parameters, the security is classi-
fied in level 2 or level 3.  – Derivatives
– Equity securities Generally, if available and if the market is defined as ac-
tive, fair value is equal to the market price.
Generally, if available and if the market is defined as ac-
tive, fair value is equal to the market price.