182 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
Accounting for derivatives
In the opposite case, the fair value of derivatives is de-
termined using internal valuation models or provided by 
third parties. In particular, the fair value is determined  Derivatives are financial instruments or other contracts 
primarily on the basis of income approach using deter- with the following characteristics:
ministic or stochastic models of discounted cash flows  – their value changes in response to the change in interest 
commonly shared and used by the market. rate, security price, commodity price, foreign exchange 
rate, index of prices or rates, credit rating or other 
The main input used in the valuation include volatility,  pre-defined underlying variables;
interest rates, yield curves, credit spreads, dividend es- – they require no initial net investment or, if necessary, 
timates and exchange rates observed at frequent inter- an initial net investment that is smaller than one which 
vals. would be required for other types of contracts that 
would be expected to have a similar response to chang-
With reference to the fair value adjustment for credit and  es in market factors;
debt risk of derivatives (credit and debt valuation adjust- – they are settled at a future date. Derivatives are classi-
ment CVA / DVA), the Group considered this adjustment  fied as at fair value through profit or loss.
as not material for the valuation of its positive and neg-
ative derivatives, as almost entirely of them is collater- According to this accounting model the portion of the 
alized. Their evaluation does not take into account for  gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined 
these adjustments. to be an effective hedge is recognized directly in an ap-
propriate item of comprehensive income while the inef-
– Financial assets where the investment risk is borne by  fective portion of the gains or loss on the hedging instru-
the policyholders and related to pension funds ment is recognized in profit or loss. 
Generally, if available and if the market is defined as ac- The amount accumulated in the other components of 
tive, fair value is equal to the market price. On the contra- comprehensive income is reversed to profit and loss ac-
ry, valuation methodologies listed above for the different  count in line with the economic changes of the hedged 
asset classes shall be used. item. 
– Financial liabilities When the hedging instrument expires or is sold, or the 
hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, 
Generally, if available and if the market is defined as ac- the cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instruments, 
tive, fair value is equal to the market price. that remains recognized directly in the other components 
of other comprehensive income from the period when the 
The fair value is determined primarily on the basis of the  hedge was effective, remains separately recognized in 
income approach using discounting techniques. comprehensive income until the forecast transaction oc-
curs. However, if the forecasted transaction is no longer 
In particular, the fair value of debt instruments issued by  expected to occur, any related cumulative gain or loss on 
the Group are valued using discounted cash flow mod- the hedging instrument that remains recognized directly 
els based on the current marginal rates of funding of the  in the other components of comprehensive income from 
Group for similar types of loans, with maturities consist- the period when the hedge was effective is immediately 
ent with the maturity of the debt instruments subject to  recognized in profit or loss.
valuation.
With reference  to emissions of some subordinated lia-
The fair value of other liabilities relating to investment  bilities, the Group has entered into hedging transactions 
contracts  is  determined  using  discounted  cash  flow  of  the interest rates volatility and exchange rate fluctua-
models that incorporate several factors, including the  tions GBP/EURO, which for accounting purposes is des-
credit  risk  embedded  derivatives,  volatility,  servicing  ignated as hedging the volatility of cash flows (cash flow 
costs and redemptions. In general, however, are subject  hedge) and accounted adopting the hedge accounting 
to the same valuation techniques used for financial as- technique.
sets linked policies.