Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 183  
Further the Group set cash flow hedges on forecast re- ous decline in market value below average cost for 12 
financing operations of subordinated liabilities that are  months.
accounted for as hedge of a forecast operations, that are 
highly probable and could affect profit or loss. The por- The prolonged decline in value of bonds and loans are 
tion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that  evaluated as a result of specific analysis that involve the 
is determined to be an effective hedge is recognized di- single issuances.
rectly in an appropriate item of comprehensive income. 
The ineffective portion of the gains or loss on the hedg- If an investment has been impaired in previous periods, 
ing instrument is recognized in profit or loss. If a forecast  further fair value declines are automatically considered 
transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a  prolonged.
financial asset or a financial liability, the associated gains 
or losses that were recognised in other comprehensive  If there is objective evidence of impairment the loss is 
income shall be reclassified from equity to profit or loss  measured as follows:
as a reclassification adjustment. – on financial assets at amortised cost, as the difference 
between the asset’s carrying amount and the present 
Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation are ac- value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the 
counted for similarly to cash flow hedges: the effective  financial asset’s original effective interest rate;
portion of gain or loss on the hedging instrument is rec- – on available for sale financial assets, as the difference 
ognized among the components of profit or loss, while  between the cost and the fair value at the measure-
the part is not effective be recognized in the separate  ment date. 
income statement.
Reversals of impairment  are recognized respectively: in 
the profit or loss in the case of debt instruments, in the 
Impairment losses on financial 
equity reserve in the case of equity securities including 
assets shares of mutual funds (IFU).
Use of estimates
As for financial assets, except investments at fair value 
through profit or loss, IAS 39 is applied whether there is 
any objective evidence that they are impaired.  The preparation of financial statements compliant to IFRS 
requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions 
Evidence of impairment includes, for example, significant  that affect items reported in the consolidations financial 
financial difficulties of the issuer, its default or delinquen- balance sheet and income statement and the disclosure 
cy in interest or principal payments, the probability that  of contingent assets and liabilities. The use of estimates 
the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reor- mainly refers to as follows:
ganisation and the disappearance of an active market for  – insurance provisions for the life and non-life segment;
that financial asset. – financial instruments measured at fair value classified 
in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy;
The recognition of impairment follows a complex anal- – the analysis in order to identify durable impairments on 
ysis in order to conclude whether there are conditions  intangible assets (e.g. goodwill) booked in in the bal-
to effectively recognize the loss. The level of detail and  ance sheet (impairment test);
the detail with which testing is being undertaken varies  – deferred acquisition costs and value of business ac-
depending on the relevance of the latent losses of each  quired;
investment.  – other provisions
– deferred and anticipated taxes;
A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of an  – defined benefit plan obligation;
investment in an equity instrument below its average cost  – share-base payments.
is considered as an objective evidence of impairment. – Estimates are periodically reviewed and are based on 
key management’s best knowledge of current facts 
The threshold of significance is defined at 30%, while the  and circumstances. 
prolonged decline in fair value is defined as a continu-