184 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
However, due to the complexity and uncertainty affecting  than market condition are considered external to this val-
the above mentioned items, future events and actions,  uation. The probability that these conditions are satisfied, 
actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates,  combined with the estimated fair value of the right to ob-
possibly significantly.  tain free shares, defines the overall plan cost. 
Further information on the process used to determine  The cost is charged to the profit and loss account and, as 
assumptions affecting the above mentioned items and  a double-entry, to equity during the vesting period, taking 
the main risk factors are included in the paragraphs on  into account, where possible, the probability of satisfac-
accounting principles and in the risk report. tion of the vesting condition related to the rights granted.
The charge or credit to the profit or loss for a period repre-
Share based payments
sents the change in cumulative expense recognised as at 
the beginning and end of that period. 
The stock option plans granted by the Board in past pe-
riods configure as share based payments to compensate  No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimate-
officers and employees. The fair value of the share options  ly vest, except for equity-settled transactions for which 
granted is estimated at the grant date and is based on  vesting is conditional upon a market or a non-vesting con-
the option pricing model that takes into account, at the  dition. These are treated as vested irrespective of wheth-
grant date, factors such as the exercise price and the life  er or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, 
of the options, the current price of the underlying shares,  provided that all other performance and/or service condi-
the expected volatility of the share price, the dividends ex- tions are satisfied.
pected on the shares and the risk-free interest rate as well 
as the specific characteristics of the plan itself. The pricing  When the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, 
model is based on a binomial simulation that takes into  the minimum expense to be recognised is the expense 
account the possibility of early exercise of the options. If  had the terms had not been modified, only if the original 
present, the pricing model estimates separately the option  terms of the award are met.
value and the probability that the market conditions are 
satisfied. Therefore, the abovementioned values deter- An additional expense is recognized for any modification 
mine the fair value of equity instruments granted.  that increases the total fair value of the share-based pay-
ment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial to the employ-
Long term incentive plans, aimed at strengthening the  ee as measured at the date of modification.
bond between the remuneration of management and ex-
pected performance in accordance with the Group stra- When an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as 
tegic plan, as well as the link between remuneration and  if it vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense 
generation of value in comparison with peers, are also  not yet recognised for the award is recognized immedi-
treated as an equity-settled share-based payment. ately. This includes any award where non-vesting condi-
tions within the control of either the entity or the employee 
The fair value of the right to obtain free shares in rela- are not met. However, if a new award is substituted for 
tion to market condition is assessed at grant date and is  the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement 
based on a model that takes into account factors such as  award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new 
historical volatility of the Generali share price and of the  awards are treated as if they were a modification of the 
peer group, the correlation between these shares, the div- original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
idends expected on the shares, the risk-free interest rate 
as well as the specific characteristics of the plan itself. The  The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as 
pricing model is based on simulation models generally  additional share dilution in the computation of diluted 
used for this type of estimation. Other conditions different  earnings per share.