186 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
Segment reporting 
Generali activities could be split in different lines of busi- Holding and other business segment
ness according to the products and services offered. In 
particular, in accordance to IFRS 8, four main sectors of  This grouping is an heterogeneous pool of non insurance 
activity have been defined: assets and in particular it includes banking and asset 
– Non life segment, which includes insurance activities  management activities, expenses regarding coordination 
performed in the non life business; activities and interest expenses on the Group financial 
– Life segment, which includes insurance activities per- debt, as well as other activities that the Group consid-
formed in the life business; ers ancillary to the core insurance business. The hold-
– Asset management; ing expenses mainly include the holding and territorial 
– Holding and other business segment. sub-holding direction expenses regarding coordination 
activities, the expenses relating to the parent company 
of stock option and stock grant plans as well interest ex-
Life segment  penses on the Group financial debt.
Activities of Life segment include saving and protection 
Methods of disclosure presentation 
business, both individual and for family, as well as unit 
linked products with investment purposes and complex 
plans for multinationals. According to IFRS 8, the disclosure regarding operating 
segments of the Group is consistent with the evidence 
reviewed periodically at the highest managerial level for 
Non life segment the purpose of making operational decisions about re-
sources to be allocated to the segments and assessment 
Activities of Non life segment include both motor and  of results.
non-motor businesses, among which motor third party 
liabilities, casualty, accident and health. It includes also  Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of each segment 
more sophisticated covers for commercial and industrial  are presented in the tables below, prepared as defined by 
risks and complex plans for multinationals. the ISVAP Regulation No. 7 of 13 July 2007 and subse-
quent amendments. 
Investment vehicles and entities supporting the activities 
of life companies are also reported in this segment. Segment data derives from a separate consolidation of 
the amounts of subsidiaries and associated companies 
in each business segment, eliminating of the effects of 
Asset management  transactions between companies belonging to the same 
segment and eliminating the carrying amount of the in-
This segment operates as a supplier of products and ser- vestments in subsidiaries of the same segment. The 
vices both for the insurance companies of the Generali  reporting  and  control  process  implemented  by  Gen-
Group and for third-party customers. erali Group implies that assets, liabilities, income and 
expenses of companies operating in different business 
The products include equity and fixed-income funds, as  segments are allocated to each segment through spe-
well as more alternative products. The objective pursued  cific segment reporting. Intra-group balances between 
by Asset Management is to identify investment oppor- companies belonging to different business segments are 
tunities and sources of income for all of its customers,  accounted for in the consolidation adjustments column 
simultaneously managing risks. in order to reconcile segment information with consoli-
dated information.
The segment includes many companies that may special-
ise in institutional or retail clients, rather than on Group  In this context, Generali Group adopts a business ap-
insurance companies or on third-party customers, or on  proach on segment reporting, characterized by the fact 
products such as real assets, high conviction strategies  that some transactions between companies belonging to 
or more traditional solutions. different segments are eliminated within each segment.