196 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
2.3 Joint ventures
Here below please find the information on Group joint ventures:
Aggregated information on immaterial joint ventures
(€ million) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017
Carrying amount of interests in immaterial joint ventures 218 224
Aggregated Group's share of:
Aggregated Group's share of: 51 19
Profit from continuing operations  -     -   
Profit from discontinued operations after taxes -1 -12
Total comprehensive income 50 7
Significant restrictions linked to unexpected fluctuations of the MTPL loss 
ratio. Generali pays a different premium every year 
In relation to the Group’s interests in joint ventures, no  depending on the subscribed tranche - being 4% on 
significant contractual, legal or regulatory restrictions ex- Class A, 6,25% on Class B and 12% on Class C – on 
ist on the Group’s ability to access or use its assets and  the amount of cover provided corresponding to each 
settle its liabilities, nor significant commitments exist. For  tranche amounting to € 85 million. The related cost is 
further details regarding restrictions on Group assets,  presented within “The Earned premiums cede” line in 
please refer to paragraph Contingent liabilities, commit- the statement of Profit or loss.
ments, guarantees, pledged assets and collaterals in Ad- – In 2017 Assicurazioni Generali stipulated a reinsurance 
ditional information section contract in the current year with Lion II Re DAC, an 
Irish special purpose company, which for a period of 
four years will cover the possible catastrophic losses 
2.4 Unconsolidated Structured Entites suffered by the Generali Group following storms and 
floods in Europe and earthquakes in Italy. The Lion II 
As of 31 December 2018, Generali Group holds no in- Re transaction transfers part of the risk to bond inves-
terests in unconsolidated structured entities that expose  tors, thus optimizing the Group’s protection against 
the Group to the variability of returns arising from their  disasters. The positive outcome of the placement of 
performance. ILS debt securities on the capital market has made it 
possible to guarantee the protection provided by Lion 
However, please find below the following cases: II Re DAC to Generali with an annual premium of 3% 
– In 2016 Generali Group stipulated a contract with  for a total of € 200 million of reinsurance coverage. This 
Horse Capital I, an Irish designated activity compa- amount will be returned by Lion II Re DAC to investors 
ny, to protect the aggregate motor third party liabili- if during the 4 years of operation of the transaction no 
ty (MTPL) loss ratio of 12 of its subsidiaries that write  events occurred on the Generali Group, deriving re-
business in the 7 European countries in which Generali  spectively from storms or floods in Europe or earth-
has a relevant market share in motor business (Italy,  quake in Italy, in excess of pre-established damage 
Germany, France, Austria, Czeck Republic, Spain and  thresholds each type of risk.
Switzerland)
– Generali Group is considered a sponsor because it  The aforementioned vehicles are not consolidated as the 
originated the insurance risk of the structured entity.  Generali Group has no control over the entities and is not 
The Group transfers,by this protection, part of the risk  exposed to the resulting variable returns.