Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 19  
NFS
Lastly, we promote a culture of inclusion which ascribes value to individuals and 
diversity of all types, particularly with regard to four types of diversity: cultural, gender, 
generational and disability. Our targets in terms of diversity and inclusion at Group level 
have been revised with a view to supporting the new strategy, coming into line with 
market best practices and collecting the points arising from continuous dialogue with 
business leaders. The Group’s plan is joined by local plans developed on the basis of local 
requirements. 
Amongst the main Group actions, diversity and inclusion training has been reinforced 
for the top international leaders. Particular focus has been dedicated to the topic of 
unconscious bias, i.e., the unconscious stereotypes and prejudices that can guide 
decisions with significant impacts on the business and people alike. The Group also 
launched the #BeBoldForInclusion initiative, with the participation of more than 40 
CEOs on 8 March, which provided the occasion for an effective awareness-raising and 
promotion campaign with respect to Generali’s diversity and inclusion strategy, with 
a particular focus on gender diversity. The initiative opened up dialogue on this topic, 
collecting feedback from all employees. 
These and many other activities were shared and supported by the Group D&I Council, led 
by the Group D&I Sponsor Frédéric de Courtois, and consisting of business leaders acting 
as D&I champions.
Promoting1 Engagement Stre2ngthen  diWneteev erdBunilleoda vaptnei moAlogneipla3en  lO ttt hrgraeaann iindmzati inoain ngnt aepgrrneoargila rgal rmsokwmillteshs .o  Tifn ooS  phuaifatrc 4m rhlteinnieadesvderetse  hrtship ias wn oditb htjae tlcheteniv tbese,  tswot  efba ouvfsofieunrre  msthsee snirct ohroinogls a innd t he 
world. 
& Empowerment our Leadership & Talents Tporo egnr&ah Nmaenwmc Ceea sps atwrbiaelittrieeesg liacu tnhcinhkeidn gin a 2ntow0dar1d sl8e C,au idsnteocrmlsuehdr iipCne ngtsri:ckityills, a number of ad hoc training 
– Step Up, a 4-day residential programme at the Lausanne campus in collaboration with 
IMD and dedicated to 70 Group Talent Directors. This initiative is intended to provide 
the Group’s future leaders with the necessary leadership capabilities in the digital age;
– Global Mentoring Program, the third edition of which was launched in October 2018, 
involving 82 participants including members of the Generali Leadership Group (GLG) 
and young managers from throughout the Group. The Global Mentoring community 
now consists of more than 200 people and the Group initiative paved the way for 
multiple regional and local mentoring initiatives;
– Strategic Study Tour 2018, an immersive study tour in the ecosystem of Singapore on 
the topic of digital innovation and business model transformation, supporting Generali 
2021 strategic cycle planning and dedicated to a select group of 35 senior leaders.
The Group’s organization is a fundamental tool for ensuring the proper execution 
Promoting1 Engagement Stre2ngthen  Build an Agil3e Organization  oacnhf aathllylees nsegtS rtheiahfstte 4m.e  iWGgndyrseo ea t ubnpedl’si et hvoeerg  aiancn haizi ecavlteieoamnr aealnn std tor suf icmbtuupsrleein  teoosr gsea nonsbiuzjearecti totihvnaeatsl  .imt T ioshd uaeslil,g  twnheead tp  iwse ribitohad sbiecudas lilonyne  ss 
shared rules, local empowerment and integration mechanisms. Furthermore, we 
& Empowerment our Leadership & Talents & New Capabilities pefrfoetomwcartdoisv tCeeu  saaton nmdee wcr aC wepntraaicitbyy leo fo wf olervkeinragg winhgic thh,e a olsrgoa tnhiaznaktiso nto’s  tchoel luesceti voef  tinetcehllnigoelongcye,.  iWs eitfhfiicni ent, 
this context, we support smart working, including through trade union agreements.