200 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
The cost of equity (Ke) for each entity is extrapolated  The consideration for the sale is € 27 million with a con-
based on the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) for- sequent realized profit of € 8 million, net of taxes.
mula.
– The Netherlands
In detail:
– the risk free rate was defined as the average value -  In February 2018, the Group finalized the sale of its en-
observed during the last three months of 2018 of the  tire investment in The Netherlands. Therefore, the related 
10-years government bond of the reference country of  investment and the related assets and liabilities, profits 
operation of the CGU, on which the goodwill has been  and losses are no longer recorded in the Group financial 
allocated; statements.
– the Beta coefficient was determined based on a ho-
mogeneous basket of securities of the non-life and life  The consideration for the sale is € 143 million. The related 
insurance sectors, which was compared to market in- economics effects have been accounted for in 2017.
dexes. The observation period was 5 years with weekly 
frequency; – Ireland
– the  market  risk  premium  amounts  to  5.5%  for  all 
Group’s CGUs. In June 2018, the Group finalized also the sale of its en-
tire investment in Generali Pan Europe. Therefore, the 
All CGUs passed the impairment test, being their re- related investment and the related assets and liabilities, 
coverable amounts higher than their carrying amounts.  profits and losses are no longer recorded in the Group 
Furthermore a sensitivity analysis was performed on the  financial statements.
results changing the cost of own capital of the company 
(Ke) (+/-1%) and the perpetual growth rate of distributa- The consideration for the sale is € 233 million with an 
ble future cash flows (g) (+/-1%) and for Non-life segment  overall impact on the result of the period of € 49 million, 
also for the main non-financial assumptions. This sensi- net of taxes.
tivity did not highlight any negative difference between 
the carrying amount and the recoverable amount. – Liechtenstein
The  Group  no  longer  considers  this  Company  as 
5 Non-current assets or disposal 
“non-current assets classified as held for sale”. Conse-
group classified as held for sale quently, assets in Liechtenstein are presented within in-
dividual items of the balance sheet.
With reference to policy of divestment of non-core and 
not strategic assets set by Generali Group, please note  – Belgium
the following:
In April 2018, Generali has signed an agreement for the 
– Colombia sale of its investment in Generali Belgium SA. 
In April 2018, the Group finalized the sale of insurance ac- Pending the release of the necessary regulatory author-
tivities held in Guatemala undertaken in 2016, following  isation, in accordance with IFRS 5, Generali Belgium SA 
the release of the necessary regulatory authorizations.  was classified as disposal group held for sale. As a result, 
Therefore, the related investment and the related assets  this investment was not excluded from consolidation, but 
and liabilities, profits and losses are no longer recorded  both the total assets and liabilities and the related profit 
in the Group financial statements. or loss, net of tax effects, have been recorded separately 
in the specific lines of the financial statements.