Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 239  
23 Other provisions
Other provisions
(€ million) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017
Provisions for taxation 75 89
Provisions for commitments 617 612
Other provisions 1,125 1,249
Total 1,816 1,950
Provisions for commitments and other provisions include  The amounts recognized in the financial statements rep-
provisions for corporate restructuring, litigation or similar  resents the best estimate of their value. In particular, in 
events as well as other commitments for which, at balance  the assessment all the peculiarities of the specific pro-
sheet date, an outflow of resources to settling the related  visions are taken into account, including the effective 
obligation is considered probable and reliably estimated.  period of incurrence of the contingent liabilities and con-
In particular, the increase in ‘Other provisions’ is mainly  sequently the expected cash flows on the different esti-
attributable to provisions for restructuring in Germany. mates and assumptions.
The table below summarized the main changes occurred during the period:
Other provisions - main changes occurred during the period
(€ million) 31/12/2018 31/12/2017
 Carrying amount as at 31 December previous year 1,950 1,804
 Foreign currency translation effects -3 -1
 Changes in consolidation scope -2 -47
 Changes -129 194
 Carrying amount as at the end of the period 1,816 1,950
In the normal course of business, the Group may enter  On 5 October 2018, Banco BTG Pactual SA filed a further 
into arrangements that do not lead to the recognition of  brief in which it reiterated its claims for damages arising, 
those commitments as assets and liabilities in the con- according to the counterparty, on the alleged violation of 
solidated financial statements under IFRS (contingent  the representations, warranties and covenants assumed 
assets and liabilities). For further information regarding  by the seller in the context of the sale of BSI S.A..
contingent liabilities please refer to the paragraph Con-
tingent liabilities, commitments, guarantees, pledged  Within the deadline set by the Arbitral Tribunal, Generali 
assets and collaterals in Additional information. then filed further briefs in which it reiterated the firm ob-
jection, both in fact and in law, of the opposing claims, 
With reference to the main outstanding litigation pro- reiterating the preliminary exceptions raised.
ceedings, it should be noted that during 2016 Gener-
ali received from Banco BTG Pactual S.A. requests for  Taking into account the status of the arbitration pro-
damages, by means of a notice arbitration, as provided  ceeding and the legal opinions acquired in this regard, 
by the Share and Purchase Agreement of BSI S.A.. In  it is considered that the conditions of probability and 
this regard, the following main developments are sum- ability to make a reliable estimate that are required by 
marised with respect to those already reported in previ- IAS 37 to make any provisions for risks related to the 
ous financial statements. abovementioned request for damages are not met.