Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 249  
Fair Value measurement
IFRS 13 - Fair Value Measurement provides guidance on  The fair value is equal to market price if market informa-
fair value measurement and requires disclosures about  tion are available (i.e. relative trading levels of identical 
fair value measurements, including the classification of  or similar instruments) into an active market, which is 
financial assets and liabilities in the levels of fair value  defined as a market where the items traded within the 
hierarchy. market are homogeneous, willing buyers and sellers can 
normally be found at any time and prices are available to 
With reference to the investment, Generali Group meas- the public. 
ures financial assets and liability at fair value of in the 
financial statements, or discloses it in the notes. If there isn’t an active market, it should be used a valu-
ation technique which however shall maximise the ob-
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an  servable inputs.
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transac-
tion between market participants at the measurement  If the fair value cannot be measured reliably, amortized 
date (exit price). In particular, an orderly transaction  cost is used as the best estimate in determining the fair 
takes place in the principal or most advantageous mar- value.
ket at the measurement date under current market con-
ditions. As for measurement and disclosure, the fair value de-
pends on its unit of account, depending on whether the 
A fair value measurement assumes that the transaction  asset or liability is a stand-alone asset or liability, a group 
to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: of assets, a group of liabilities or a group of assets and 
liabilities in accordance with the related IFRS. 
(a) in the principal market for the asset or liability; or
The table below illustrates both the carrying amount and 
(b) in the absence of a principal market, in the most ad- the fair value of financial assets and liabilities recognised 
vantageous market for the asset or liability. in the balance sheet at 31 December 20181.
1  With reference to investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, the book value, based on the fraction of equity for associates and interests in joint ventures or on 
cost adjusted for any impairment losses for non-consolidated subsidiaries, was used as a reasonable proxy of their fair value.