Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 253  
41 Additional information on level 3
ing assets, the Group considers that, for a given change 
in the fair value of the underlying of such assets, their 
The amount of financial instruments classified in Level 3  value undergoes a similar variation.
represents 2.5% of total financial assets and liabilities at 
fair value, slightly increasing compared to 31 December  For more details on the nature of Group funds please re-
2017 mainly due to change in perimeter. fer to the section Investments in the Notes. 
Generally, the main inputs used in valuation techniques  – Bonds
are volatility, interest rates, yield curves, credit spreads, 
dividend estimates and exchange rates. Are corporate bonds, classified into available for sale 
and fair value through profit or loss. Their fair value 
The more significant assets classified within Level 3 are  is mainly determined based on the market or income 
the following: approach. In terms of sensitivity analysis any chang-
es in the inputs used in the valuation do not cause a 
– Unquoted equities significant impact on the fair value at the Group level 
considering the lack of materiality of these securities 
It includes unquoted equity securities, mainly classified  classified in level 3.
into available for sale. Their fair value is determined us-
ing the valuation methods described above or based on  Moreover, given the analyses described above, the 
the net asset value of the company. These contracts are  Group has decided to classify all the asset-backed se-
valued individually using appropriate input depending on  curities items in Level 3 considering that their evalua-
the security and therefore neither a sensitivity analysis  tion is generally not corroborated by market inputs. For 
nor an aggregate of unobservable inputs used would be  what regards prices provided by providers or counter-
indicative of the valuation. parties, bonds for which it is not possible to replicate 
the price using market inputs have been classified in 
In addition, for certain securities the amortized cost is  Level 3. Therefore, given the lack of information con-
considered to be a reasonable proxy for fair value, and  cerning the inputs used for the determination of the 
does not therefore apply a sensitivity analysis. price, the Group is not able to perform a sensitivity 
analysis on this bonds.   
– IFU funds, private equity and hedge funds
– Financial assets where the investment risk is borne by 
It includes unquoted IFU funds, private equity and hedge  the policyholders and related to pension funds
funds, which are classified into available for sale and fair 
value through profit or loss. Their fair value is substantial- Their fair value is determined using the valuation meth-
ly provided by the fund administrators on the basis of the  ods and observations on sensitivity analysis and input 
net asset value of the fund. The fair value of these invest- described above. 
ments is closely monitored by a team of professionals 
inside the Group. The following table shows a reconciliation of financial in-
struments measured at fair value and classified as level 
Being the asses described, by their nature, on a straight- 3.
line basis sensitive to changes in the value of the underly-