Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 257  
– Held to maturity investments participant. Based on the analysis of inputs used for val-
uation, considering the limited cases where the inputs 
The category includes primarily bonds, which valuation is  would be observable in active markets, the Group pro-
above described. If the fair value cannot be reliably de- ceeded to classify the whole category at level 3.
termined, the amortized cost is used as the best estimate 
for the determination of fair value. In particular, the valuation takes into consideration not 
only the discounted net future income but also the pecu-
– Loans liarities of the properties such as intended use and loca-
tion as well as the entity of the vacancy rate.
The category includes bonds, which valuation is de-
scribed above, mortgages and other loans . The fair value of land and buildings (investment prop-
erties) is mainly based on external appraisals based on 
In particular, mortgages and other loans are valued on  methods described above.
the basis of future payments of principal and interest dis-
counted at the interest rates for similar investments by  – Investments  in  subsidiaries,  associated  companies 
incorporating the expected future losses or alternative- and joint ventures
ly discounting (with risk-free rate) to the probable future 
cash flows considering market or entity-specific data   The carrying amount, based on the share of equity for 
(i.e. probability of default). These assets are classified as  associates and interests in joint ventures or on cost ad-
level 2 or 3 depending on whether or not the inputs are  justed for eventual impairment losses for non-consolidat-
corroborated by market data. ed subsidiaries, is used as a reasonable estimate of the 
related fair value and, therefore, these investments are 
If the fair value cannot be reliably determined, the amor- classified in level 3.
tized cost is used as the best estimate for the determina-
tion of fair value. – Subordinated debts, loans and bonds and liabilities to 
banks and customers
– Receivables from banks or customers
Generally, if available and if the market is defined as ac-
Considering their nature, the amortized cost is generally  tive, fair value is equal to the market price.
considered a good approximation of fair value and there-
fore classified within level 3. If appropriate, they are val- The fair value is determined primarily on the basis of the 
ued at market value, considering observable inputs, and  income approach using discounting techniques. In par-
therefore classified within level 2. ticular, the fair value of debt instruments issued by the 
Group are valued using discounted cash flow models 
– Land and buildings (investment and self-used proper- based on the current marginal rates of the Group financ-
ties) ing for similar types of instruments, with maturities con-
sistent with the residual maturity of the debt instruments 
These assets are mainly valuated on the basis of inputs  subject to valuation.
of similar assets in active markets or of discounted cash 
flows of future income and expenses of the rental con- If measured at amortized cost as an approximation of fair 
sidered as part of the higher and best use by a market  value, they are classified in Level 3.