Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 259  
The following disclosure is provided on the credit risk of  accordance with IAS 39 for rating classes of financial in-
the financial instruments that give rise to specific dates  struments that give rise to specific dates for cash flows 
for cash flows consisting exclusively of principal and  consisting of exclusively of payment of principal and in-
interest payments; specifically, the carrying amount in  terest.
Carrying amount by risk rating grade of bonds  that give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments 
of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding
(€ million) Carrying amount* (IAS 39)
AAA 24,111
AA 74,599
A 67,643
BBB 118,140
Non investment grade 6,181
Not Rated 4,228
Total 294,903
In addition to the bonds presented in the table above,  Repurchase agreements are mainly with bank counter-
financial assets that envisage cash flows represented  parties with high credit ratings.
solely by principal and interest payments also include 
mortgages and other loans, term deposits, repurchase  The carrying amount of bonds that do not have low credit 
agreements (reverse REPO) and receivables from banks  risk, considered as exposure with a rating lower than in-
and bank customers. vestment grade, is € 10,409 mln.
The loan portfolio consists mainly of mortgages with 
low credit risk (analogous to investment grade); largely  Application of IFRS 9 by Group companies for their 
guaranteed by collateral, mainly real estate, and primarily  separate financial statements 
managed by Group banks. Furthermore, the credit risk 
management process includes a careful assessment of  There are no material associated companies or joint ven-
the customer’s credit rating, whether an individual or cor- tures that apply IFRS 9.
poration.
The main Subsidiaries that have applied IFRS 9 are 
The counterparty for term deposits is generally assessed  banking, investment management and asset manage-
by using the highest available rating, where possible, and  ment companies. Information on their investments and 
considering minimum rating requirements, in particular,  the procedures for applying IFRS 9 are included in their 
BBB for Group companies in countries classified as “in- published financial statements.
vestment grade”, or similar to the sovereign debt rating 
in countries that have a rating below investment grade. 