264 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
Generali Group adopted multi-year plans, based on one  In detail, the maximum number of shares that can be as-
cycle of three years. Once the cycle reaches its conclu- signed is determined at the start of the plan. The maxi-
sion, participants may be granted a certain number of  mum potential bonus to be disbursed in shares equals to 
free shares, again assuming certain targets have been  175% of the gross fixed remuneration of the plan partic-
achieved, subject to specific holding/lock up periods. ipants (or a different percentage considered the role of 
the related beneficiaries); therefore, the maximum num-
The plan LTI 2015 has fully accrued its relevant cost com- ber of shares that can be assigned is the result of the 
ponent in the first half of the year, coming to a close with  ratio of the maximum bonus and the share value, with 
the equity instruments assignment upon verification of  the latter calculated as the average price of the share 
the Group’s performance levels in terms of ROE and rel- in the three months prior to the meeting of the Board of 
ative TSR, as well as threshold levels required in terms of  Directors called to resolve on the draft statutory financial 
Return on Risk Capital. statements of the Holding Company and the consolidat-
ed financial statements for the year previous to the year 
The LTI plans 2016 and 2017, currently in progress, may  of Plan start.
result in shares’ granting respectively in 2019 and 2020, 
subject to the Group performance level (determined by  The maximum number of shares that can potentially be 
the comparison of ranges of ROE and relative TSR) and  assigned to participants at the end of the three years is 
the overcoming of the minimum level, where requested,  divided up into three tranches; the first tranche is for 30% 
in terms of Economic Solvency ratio. of the maximum number of shares to be possibly as-
signed, the second is for a further 30% and the remain-
As far as the lock-up constraint, 50% of the shares are  ing 40% represents the third tranche, each tranche being 
immediately available, the remaining 50% is subject to a  subject to certain specific targets as described below.
two year lock-up period.
Once the level of the Regulatory Solvency ratio has been 
Further details are given in the information reports ap- reached, the achievement of the Group’s financial targets, 
proved at the time by the Shareholders’ Meeting and  represented by the ROE and the relative TSR, compared 
published on the Generali Group website, as well as in  with the peers part of the STOXX Euro Insurance index, 
the Remuneration Report annually published.    is verified on a yearly and overall three-year cycle basis.
With a structure similar to the last year, a new long-term  The performance level, expressed as a percentage, is 
incentive plan based on Assicurazioni Generali shares –  determined by a calculation methodology, based on two 
Group Long Term Incentive (LTI) 2018 - has been submit- independent baskets respectively for the achievement of 
ted for the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting. the ROE and the relative TSR. The final results in each bas-
ket, with a 50% weight on the bonus assignable, shall be 
In line with market practices and investor expectations,  calculated using a linear interpolation approach. The max-
shares are assigned and available to beneficiaries over a  imum performance level is 175% overall (or a different per-
total time frame of 6 years, subject to the achievement of  centage considered the role of the related beneficiaries).
Group’s performance conditions (Return on Equity – ROE 
- and  relative Total Shareholders Return - rTSR) and the  During each year of the plan and at the end of the three 
achievement of a minimum level of Regulatory Solvency  years, the Board of Directors evaluates the degree to 
Ratio, as detailed below. which the Regulatory Solvency Ratio has been achieved 
as compared with the limit set as 120%, or alternative 
The Plan is based on the following key aspects:  percentage as may be chosen from time to time by the 
– the incentive connected with the achievement of the  Board of Directors. On the basis of this evaluation, the 
targets is paid through the grant of Assicurazioni Gen- number of shares to be accrued annually or definitively 
erali S.p.A. ordinary shares;  granted may be reduced or even zeroed by the Board 
– the right to receive the shares is subject to an entry  of Directors if the Regulatory Solvency Ratio should fall 
threshold, defined annually by the Board of Directors  below the threshold established.
and which represents a condition precedent; 
– the targets to which payment of the incentive is subject  In any case, no incentive will be paid in the event of a 
are Group financial ones and are defined at the begin- significant worsening of the capital and financial situation 
ning of the three-year performance period. of the Company. Any amount disbursed will be subject to 
claw-back if the performance considered should later be 