Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 265  
found to be non-lasting or ineffective as a result of wilful  For additional information related to incentive plans refer 
misconduct or gross negligence. to the 2018 Remuneration Report.
Individual tranches of shares are only granted at the end  In line with the previous plans, the 2018 LTI plan can be 
of the performance period and, therefore, at the end of  treated as an equity-settled share-based payment falling 
the three years, after verifying the degree to which the  under IFRS 2 scope, which provides a grant date meas-
targets have been achieved in the third year (i.e. assess- urement model seeking to capture the value of the contin-
ment by the Board of Directors on the actual achieve- gent right to shares promised at grant date, to the extent 
ment of the targets set, considered both on an annual  that that promises becomes an entitlement of the counter-
and overall 3-year basis) and as long as there continues  party, rather than the value of any shares finally delivered.
to be an employment/ director relationship in place with 
the Company or with other companies of the Group as  The condition related to rTSR configures as a market 
at the grant date. Consequently, save for extraordinary  condition, other conditions mentioned above are consid-
situations as specifically envisaged by the plan rules,  ered whether as performance or as service condition. 
and unless otherwise decided by the delegated bodies, 
any case of termination of the employment/director rela- The fair value of the right to receive free shares related 
tionship automatically entails forfeiture of the right to be  to the market condition is estimated at grant date using 
granted shares.  statistic model which estimates the statistically probable 
positioning of Group TSR respect to peer group identified 
As regards the holding period, in line with investors re- in the STOXX Euro Insurance Index. 
quests. at the grant date, 50% of the shares are imme-
diately available (to allow the participants to pay the tax  As regards 2014 plans, the performance level to be as-
charges connected with the grant), the remaining 50%  sessed  was  determined  by  the  cross-comparison  of 
is subject to a two year lock-up period; subject to the  ranges of ROE and relative TSR; for each tranche was 
requirement for the directors that participate the plan to  calculated a fair value for each of the possible RoE inter-
maintain a suitable number of shares assigned until term  vals according to the reference matrix for the cross-com-
of the office in course at the expiry of the lock-up. parison of ranges of ROE and relative TSR. 
In line with the LTI plans 2015 and 2016, a dividend  In order to assess the cumulative cost of the individual 
equivalent mechanism has been introduced on the basis  plans, for each tranche, the fair value related to the most 
of the dividends distributed during the three-year per- probable RoE outcome was multiplied by the number of 
formance period. In particular, should the shareholders’  shares that can be assigned based on satisfaction of the 
meeting resolve upon the distribution of dividends in fa- vesting conditions. This cost has been allocated over a 
vour of the shareholders during the three-year reference  period of maturity of 3 years (vesting period), with a cor-
period, at the expiry of such three-year reference period,  responding increase in equity.
an additional number of shares determined in relation to 
the overall dividends distributed during the three-year  In line with the calculation method applied from 2015, 
reference period will be assigned in favour of the benefi- described above and based on an independent assess-
ciaries. The additional number of shares thus determined  ment of the levels of achievement on the Group’s finan-
shall be assigned simultaneously and in relation with the  cial indicators, the cost of the plans 2016, 2017 and 2018 
other shares assigned in favour of each beneficiary, sub- was determined by separating the component connect-
ject to the same restrictions (holding period) mentioned  ed to the relative TSR to the one linked to the ROE.
above and determined considering the shares’ value at 
the assignment of the plan, to be calculated as the av- The evaluation of the bonus right linked to market con-
erage price of the share in the three months prior to the  dition is made by multiplying the fair value of assignable 
meeting of the Board of Directors called to resolve on the  shares (equal to the market price at grant date) with the 
draft statutory financial statements of the Parent Compa- determined pay-out by applying the linear interpolation 
ny and the consolidated financial statements for the year  of the probable position of rTSR estimated using a sta-
previous to the year of the Plan start. tistical model. The linear interpolation method is applied 
to a range between the maximum pay-out, recognized in 
The maximum number of shares that can be granted is  the case of the TSR positioning at the first place, and a 
11,500,000, accounting for 0.74% of the current share  pay-out zero in the case where the TSR is in the last posi-
capital. tion with respect to selected peer or has a negative value.