266 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
For each tranche of the LTI plan 2018, the table below shows the fair value at the grant date of the bonus right related 
to the performance level in terms of rTSR:
(%) Tranche 2018 Tranche 2019 Tranche 2020
Fair value bonus related to market condition  6.47 6.34 6.50
The related cost on overall plan is resulted from the mul- at 130% or different percentage defined later by the 
tiplication, weighted for each tranche, of the above men- Board of directors
tioned fair value with the number of rights related to the  – maintaining the position as Managing Director/Group 
market condition, to be assigned based on the satisfac- CEO until the end of the current term (therefore losing 
tion of the vesting condition. all rights in the event of termination of the working re-
lationship for any reason before the end of this term).
A similar calculation was applied to the bonus portion 
linked to the ROE, identifying the pay-out through the lin- Furthermore, the Plan calls for the award of additional 
ear interpolation applied to the level of RoE considered  shares, determined on the basis of the amount of the 
most probable. The range applied to the linear interpola- overall dividends distributed during the reference period, 
tion is included between the maximum pay-out, granted  according to a dividend equivalent mechanism.
in case of a level of RoE equal to or greater than 13%, 
and a pay-out equal to 0 in case of a level of RoE equal  The Plan also obligates the Managing Director/Group 
to or lower than 11%. CEO to retain 50% of the shares awarded to him for free 
for at least two years, as well as other standard sustaina-
Finally, the cost related to the recognition of dividends  bility clauses (e.g. malus, clawback, hedging restrictions) 
paid during the three-year period (so called dividend  to protect financial solidity and the Group’s non-exces-
equivalent) was estimated by applying an estimated div- sive exposure to risk.
idend to the expected number of shares to be assigned 
under the plan, based on the degree of achievement as- The condition related to TSR configures as a market con-
sessed as above described. dition, other conditions mentioned above are considered 
as service condition. 
The overall cost of the LTI plans 2016, 2017 and 2018, 
sum of the three components above mentioned, is al- The estimated fair value of the bonus right subject to the 
located over a period of maturity of 3 years (vesting pe- performance in terms of TRS was calculated by multi-
riod) starting from the first financial year on which the  plying the share price at the Plan’s approval grant date 
performance levels are assessed, with a corresponding  with the pay-out given linearly interpolating the probable 
increase in equity. TSR, estimated by applying a statistical model for the 
possible evolution of the share price in the three years 
In addition, last year, during Shareholders’ Meeting has  considered.
been approved a special Stock Plan for the Managing 
Director / Group CEO. The relative cost of the overall plan is obtained by multi-
plying the market value above mentioned (amounting to 
The Plan involves the free award of a maximum of n.  EUR 2.4) with the number of rights relating to the market 
200.000 ordinary Assicurazioni Generali shares, subject  condition, assignable on the basis of the achievement 
to the following conditions being met: of vesting condition; the cost related to the recogni-
– the Managing Director/Group CEO continuing to hold  tion of dividends paid during the three-year period (so 
his existing n. 200.000 Assicurazioni Generali shares,  called  dividend equivalent) was estimated by applying a 
acquired with his own means, until the end of his cur- deemed dividend to the expected number of shares to be 
rent term in office; assigned under the Plan.
– achieving a specific three-year Total Shareholders Re-
turn (TSR) target of +72.8%, calculated over the period  The total cost of the plan, sum of the two components 
from July 2016 to July 2019; described above, was allocated over a period of accrual 
– maintaining  Economic  Solvency  Ratio  thresholds  of three years in line with the service period required.