270 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
cember 2017 and 31 December 2018, respectively, whilst  Overall, the total number of shares allotted and in the 
the number of financial instruments to be allotted was  process of accruing amounted to about 360.5 thousand 
determined based on the same reference value as the  (334 thousand net of the estimated turnover), for a total 
Banca Generali stock applied for the Remuneration Poli- value of 4.6 million euros, of which 0.7 million euros al-
cies in force in the respective years. ready recognised through profit and loss.
(thousands of shares) Maximum No. of shares No. of shares net of the estimated  Plan’s Fair value (€ million)
turnover
2017- 2026 Plan - estimate 207.5 190.9 2.4
2018- 2026 Plan - estimate 153.1 143.1 2.2
  360.6 334.1 4.7
Long Term Incentive Plan – once it has been determined that the access gate5  
conditions of the Banking Group and of the Insurance 
On 12 April 2018, the General Shareholders’ Meeting of  Group have been met, Banca Generali’s Board of Di-
Banca Generali approved a new long-term incentive plan  rector assesses the attainment of the targets set for the 
for the Banking Group’s top management based exclu- three-year period and determined the exact number of 
sively on Banca Generali S.p.A. shares (LTI Plan 2018).  shares that can potentially be allotted for the year in 
question; 
The new plan presents characteristics similar to those of  – at the end of the three-year period, after having as-
the plans that the parent company Assicurazioni Generali  sessed that the access gate conditions have been met, 
activates yearly and are based on the allotment of its own  the total number of shares accrued are paid in one 
shares. However, this plan is mainly aimed at increasing  tranche through the free granting to the beneficiaries of 
the value of Banca Generali shares, by strengthening the  own ordinary shares, repurchased on the market (stock 
link between the remuneration of beneficiaries and per- granting), provided that the beneficiary’s work relation-
formance of the Banking Group, without prejudice to the  ship with one of the Banking Group companies is still in 
consistency required with the expected results set forth  force (service condition);
in the Insurance Group’s strategic plan. – 50% of the shares allotted vest immediately upon al-
lotment, whereas the remaining 50% do not vest for an 
In light of the above, the new incentivisation plan calls for: additional two years6;
1. allotment to the beneficiaries of Banca Generali shares  – the plan does not include dividend equivalent mecha-
acquired on the market instead of Assicurazioni Gen- nisms, in accordance with the law and common prac-
erali shares directly allotted by the latter; tice in the banking sector.
2. increased weight of the Banking Group’s objectives, 
equal to 80%. The targets triggering accrual of the incentive are broken 
down into:
The key characteristics of the plan are as follows: – two Banking Group targets (ROE and EVA), weighting 
– the maximum number of the shares to be allotted is de- for 80% on the overall bonus;
termined at the beginning of the period of reference us- – two Insurance Group targets (Operating ROE and rTSR 
ing a multiplier of the beneficiary’s current remuneration4  – relative Total Shareholders’ Return compared to a 
and is divided into three notional instalments, respec- Peer Group), weighting for the remaining 20%.
tively referring to each of the three years of the plan;
4  The potential maximum bonus to be paid in shares corresponds to 175% of the gross annual remuneration of the plan participants for top managers and to 87.5% for other 
beneficiaries.
5  The access gate conditions consist of:
  > two indicators representing the specific access thresholds for the Banking Group tied to the Total Capital Ratio and Liquidity Capital Ratio, on which the right to allotment of 
the shares (100%) is contingent;
  > an indicator representing an access threshold for the Generali Group linked to the Regulatory Solvency Ratio, on which the right to the allotment of the part of the shares tied 
to the satisfaction of the Generali Group Objectives (20%) is contingent.
6  Subject to the requirement that the Chief Executive Officer retain an adequate number of the shares allotted until the end of the term in office in progress on the vesting date.