Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 27  
Glossary available at the end of this 
document
E X T E R N A L C O N T E X T
Challenges and opportunities of 
FINANCIAL CAPITAL the market context, p. 28-33
HUMAN CAPITAL Deliver on the promise
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL   At 31 December 2018, Generali reached and surpassed its 
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL   financial targets of more than € 7 billion in cumulative net 
MANUFACTURED CAPITAL   operating cash in the 2015-2018 period and an average 
  operating return on equity of more than 13%. The proposed 
NATURAL CAPITAL
  2019 dividend per share will enable Generali to reach and 
  exceed the target of more than € 5 billion in cumulative 
Our strategy VALUES   dividends in the 2015-2018 period.
Deliver on the promise > € 7 bln  cumulative net operating cash 
Our governance
Value our people   2015-2018
Live the community > € 5 bln  cumulative dividends 
Be open   2015-2018
> 13%  average operating RoE 
  2015-2018
www.generali.com/investors/
In defining its new strategic plan, Generali has  investing-in-generali/goals-and-
Financial capital results for further details on the 
identified a new purpose representing an evolution  achievement of 2015-2018 strategic 
objectives 
of its previous vision and mission:
Enable people to shape a safer  NFS
Value our people
future by caring for their lives    We value our people, encourage diversity and invest in 
and dreams   continuous learning and growth by creating a transparent, 
CULTURAL    cohesive and accessible working environment. Developing our 
It is the essence of what Generali does for its  TRANSFORMATIONAL    people will ensure our company’s long-term future.
clients every day. AREAS
Ownership
Human capital The Generali 2021 strategy,  
Simpliﬁcation p. 18-20
Our sustainable value creation Human touch
is reflected in an integrated offering of Life,  Innovation Live the community
P&C and Asset Management products, which    We are proud to belong to a global Group with strong, sustainable 
is fundamental for customers who seek    and long-lasting relationships in every market in which we 
complete solutions to protect their quality of life,  Intellectual capital   operate. Our markets are our homes.
now and in the future. Manufactured capital
We distribute our products and we offer our  Human capital
services based on a multi-channel strategy:  BRAND
Social and relationship capital The Generali 2021 strategy,  
the guidance of our agents will be essential  p. 21-23
Natural capital
to provide our customers with customized  LIFE-TIME The Generali 2021 strategy, 
products that meet their needs, including with  PARTNER p. 16-20 Be open
the support of new technologies.   We are curious, approachable and empowered people with open 
www.generali.com/our-
. responsibilities/our-commitment-   and diverse mindsets who want to look at things from a different 
to-the-environment-and-climate/
real-estate-investments for further    perspective.
Social and relationship capital information on sustainable real 
estate investments
Natural capital
The Generali 2021 strategy,  
p. 16-20
Social and relationship capital
Intellectual capital
Challenges and opportunities of 
the market context, p. 30