28 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
Challenges and opportunities of the market context
We are an international player of the insurance sector and the centre of 
interest and expectations for a large number of stakeholders. The factors of 
the context in which we operate represent challenges and opportunities that 
we continuously assess in order to guarantee adequate monitoring of the risks 
that can arise from them. We manage our business in an integrated manner, 
taking it into account in our strategy and pursuing the value creation over time. 
Risk Report, p. 93 of the Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018 for more detailed information on the risk 
management model and on the capital requirement
Uncertain financial and  
markets during 2018 within the Eurozone were Brexit 
macro-economic landscape  and developments on the Italian political scene. As 
regards concern for the latter, the rating agencies Fitch 
and Moody’s lowered their creditworthiness opinion 
In 2018, global GDP is expected to increase to 3.6%.  while alarm on Italy’s public finance pushed the ten-
The global macro-economic and political landscape was  year BTP-Bund spread up, and it closed 2018 at 253 
affected by topics that aroused significant concern also  bps.
on the markets during the year, such as the budget law in  In the USA, the tax reform kept up the confidence level; 
Italy, the escalation of trade friction (especially between  growth of real GDP in 2018 should settle at 2.9%, up by 
the USA and China), the worsening of the crisis in the  2.2% over 2017, while the unemployment rate fell to the 
more fragile emerging markets and the protests of the  lowest level of the last 50 years. The Federal Reserve 
Yellow Vests in France. raised the reference rates four times during 2018, and 
Growth of real GDP of the Eurozone in 2018 is forecast  additional increases are forecast for 2019 as well.
to  be  1.9%,  down  compared  to  2017  (2.5%).  The  With reference to the insurance sector, the Life business 
unemployment rate dropped to the minimum low of the  in  Italy,  France  and  Germany  registered  an  upswing 
last decade, with an acceleration of wages in spite of  following a difficult period, thanks not only to the sale of 
the inflation rate being low. The European Central Bank  unit-linked products, but also to recovery in traditional 
(ECB) ended the quantitative easing during the year, but  policies that increased to rates higher than those of the 
will continue to reinvest bonds on maturity; the ECB’s  unit-linked ones. Income in the P&C market in the major 
first increase in rates will be subordinate to the changes  Eurozone  countries  improved,  with  particularly  good 
in inflation. The major important topics for the financial  performance recorded in the health business.
and our management
current profitability. The creation of a multi-boutique 
  insurance asset manager platform is part of the strategy 
Market expectations, the Group’s profitability targets and  to enhance the investment capacity in these market 
the expectations of policyholders’ returns are the main  sectors.
factors influencing the formulation of the investment  We are exposed to the market risks arising from the value 
allocation strategy, in line with the Solvency II principles.  fluctuations of the investments and to the credit risks 
The regulatory system and the continued low interest in a  linked to the risk of counterparties’ non-fulfilment as well 
global context of growing uncertainty render it essential  as to expansion of the credit spread. We are handling 
to manage assets in a rigorous and careful manner that  these risks by following principles of sound and prudent 
is consistent with liabilities. Geographical diversification  management, in line with the Prudent Person Principle 
and selective focus on alternative investments (private  and with the Group Investment Governance Policy and 
equity and private debt) and real assets (real estate  risk guidelines. We measure financial and credit risks 
assets  and/or  infrastructural  assets,  both  direct  and  using the Group’s internal model, which offers us a better 
indirect)  are  important  factors  in  current  investment  representation of our risk profile.
activities which aim to contain portfolio risks and sustain 