Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 29  
Regulatory evolution 
packages of measures: the sustainable finance action  NFS
plan  (including  the  obligation  for  asset  managers  to 
The  insurance  sector  continues  to  be  affected  by  take into account sustainability factors in the investment 
continuous changes in the national and international  processes), the one on opportunities that technological 
regulatory system.  innovation  in  the  financial  services  (Fintech)  offers 
IVASS Regulation, no. 38 was issued in 2018, and it  and lastly, a number of measures aimed at bolstering 
NFS
entails an in-depth revision of the Group’s corporate  consumer protection (New Deal for Consumers). 
system and a few important corporate processes.  The revision of the Solvency II Directive and the Key 
The IDD, the insurance intermediation directive, was also  Information Document (KID) for the PRIIPS, the insurance 
applied in 2018. investment products, is currently in progress.
Other important Regulation proposals completing the  At the global level, the Common Framework (ComFrame) 
regulatory framework introduced by the General Personal  works  launched  by  the  International  Association  of 
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) are presently being  Insurance Supervisors (IAIS) in order to develop standard 
discussed. They touch on themes such as the protection  capital  requirements  for  insurance  groups  operating 
of electronic communications (ePrivacy) and the free  globally are continuing.
circulation of non-personal data.  Lastly,  as  regards  the  new  international  accounting 
In a perspective of growth and creation of a true single  standards, the International Accounting Standards Board 
European market, discussions focused on defining rules  (IASB) has decided to postpone the entry into force of the 
governing the PEPPs, the European voluntary pension  new accounting standard IFRS 17 (insurance contracts) 
products  that  will  join  the  already  existing  national  by one year, from 2021 to 2022, and to postpone also 
pension instruments, continue. exemption from applying the standard IFRS 9 (financial 
The  European  Commission  also  launched  several  instruments) for insurance companies until 2022.
and our management
products, we are closely monitoring the revision of these 
  two important regulations for the sector. 
We  run  our  business  in  compliance  with  the  law,  We are engaged in the various tests carried out by the 
internal regulations and codes and professional ethics,  International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS) 
and we closely monitor the evolution of the regulatory  to determine the final architecture and calibrations of the 
environment, dialoguing with legislators and institutions.  supervisory requirement.
We regularly evaluate our exposure to the risk of non- We are also following the developments of the new 
compliance and assume prompt measures to adequately  international  accounting  standards  entailing  sizeable 
manage it. operational  impacts  for  the  companies.  As  regards 
We are implementing the requirements set out in the new  these topics, we have developed an integrated Group 
NFS
IVASS Regulation, no. 38, on the subject of corporate  programme called Finance NEXT (Navigate to Excellence 
governance, and we have adapted our business model  Transformation) with the goal of optimally coordinating the 
to the IDD and GDPR rules. plans to implement the new IFRS accounting standards 
We are closing following developments in the proposals  (specifically, IFRS 9 on investments and IFRS 17 on 
put forward by the various institutions in order to assess  insurance contracts) and of speeding up the reporting 
their possible risks and impacts, and also the opening of  processes in line with the new regulatory deadlines. 
new business scenarios and opportunities. This will allow the Group to manage the new regulatory 
After having implemented the Solvency II requirements  obligations that will have a very sizeable impact over the 
and  those  concerning  transparency  of  investment  years to come in an integrated manner.