30 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
NFS
Technological evolution 
the so-called world of ecosystems, where the borderlines 
between businesses at one time different and distinct are 
We are facing a profound change caused by the interaction  becoming fainter and fainter in order to offer customers a 
and  the  cumulative  effects  of  various  developments  service in addition to a product.
in  technology:  Internet  of  Things,  cloud  services,  Technological evolution also involves exponential growth 
cognitive  computing,  advanced  analytics,  Robotic  in  cyber  threats,  such  as  attacks  aimed  at  stealing 
Process  Automation  (RPA),  artificial  intelligence  and  information or blocking operational processes. Adequate 
the development of mobile networks are elements that  management of this risk is therefore fundamental in order 
contribute to creating a renewed environment in which  to limit potential effects of economic and operational 
to operate in order to optimise efficiency, operations and  nature but also to preserve, in particular, the confidence 
proximity with our customers. The spread of public and  of customers in the processing of their data which are 
context data, the progressive digitalisation of customers,  frequently  sensitive.  The  issue  is  also  increasingly 
the  growing  appetite  for  personalised  products,  the  relevant for regulators which have introduced specific 
computing power available at low prices that doubles  safety measures as well as reporting processes in the 
one year after the next allow insurance companies to  case of violation of the personal data (General Personal 
transform their way of doing business and to step into  Data Protection Regulation). 
and our management
the most innovative security solutions and constantly 
  improving our response processes. More specifically, we 
Data analysis is increasingly part of the DNA of the  have set up a Security Operation Center (SOC) to monitor 
Group’s  production  processes,  from  the  systems  for  all events recorded by our security solutions 24/7, detect 
improving fraud identification to personalisation of the  potential incidents and step in with containment and 
offer, from the automation of processes to anticipating  restoration actions. SOC’s performance are monitored 
customers’ needs. in a structured manner through specific indicators, that 
The formulations and analyses necessary for this new era  are not reported due to security reasons. In agreement 
of customer relations are carried out - while guaranteeing  with the operational risk management model, we have 
anonymity - both by the single business units on their  introduced an intervention assessment and prioritisation 
own and with the Group’s support through an analytical  framework  supported  by  an  IT  tool  available  to  our 
platform. Consolidated in 2018, the platform now lets us  countries. The Group governance model has also been 
leverage synergies coming from the RPA and the cognitive  reinforced by defining a regulatory corpus concerning the 
technologies,  thus  allowing  increasingly  complex  security of the information, in line with the major reference 
processes to be automated which increases quality and  standards (NIST, ISO 27001, etc.) and with the sector’s 
efficiency. Nevertheless, in the perspective of ongoing  best practices. Lastly, we are busy consolidating the 
improvement we are continuing to scout platforms both  security ethos in the Group via many communication and 
based on traditional integration technologies (API) and  training initiatives, such as the publication of practical 
the Blockchain/Distributed Ledger type that lead the way  advice for managing information security during one’s 
to new digital ecosystems. work activity.
We  are  in  step  with  the  new  technologies  and  are  We are measuring operational risk following the regulatory 
protecting  ourselves  from  the  new  threats.  We  are  standards and with qualitative and quantitative models 
continuing to enhance our ability to prevent, detect and  that allow us to grasp our most important exposures and 
respond to potential cyber attacks while implementing  to define the adequacy of the existing controls.