Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 31  
NFS
New customer needs 
and other insurance products.
Customers  currently  place  greater  focus  on  service 
In  this  currently  uncertain  economic  environment,  quality: they have a more independent approach to the 
consumer attitudes to insurance products and services  decision-making  process,  which  includes  visiting  the 
are changing in light of two global trends: digitalization,  websites  of  insurance  companies,  reading  customer 
which has introduced new selling options and more  reviews  on  social  media  and  checking  comparison 
diverse insurance product management, and economic  websites. However, the role of the agent is still crucial in 
uncertainty, which has changed spending on savings  the purchase of an insurance product.
and our management
customer  through  the  digital  and  social 
  channels;
Our ambition is to be a life-time partner to  – campaign management tools that allow 
Customers16  our customers by combining simplicity and  Generali to manage new solution launches;
innovation with empathy and care along the  2. we will offer the best in class proposition  Customer 
61
 mln entire customer journey, at all touchpoints  and service innovations with the benefit of  T-NPS rolled-out 
(+7.0%) and  channels.  We  strive  to  be  proactive  digital and data analytics;
58 
and  focused  on  customer  relationships  3. we will seamlessly connect Generali, our  in 
and  integrate  protection,  prevention  and  agents and customers together on mobile  business unit
assistance,  creating  tailor-made  products  and web (Mobile and Web Hub); (+7.4%)
and services that meet our clients’ needs. 4. we will continue to listen to our customers 
We will therefore focus on 5 transformation  and to act based on their feedback in order 
actions: to improve the service offered across all  Distribution 
1. we  will  digitally  enable  our  advisory  touchpoints; NPS rolled-out
Distributors17  distribution network: through the Agent Hub,  5. we will strengthen our brand19 to become 
35
we will provide distributors with adequate  1st choice in the Relationship Net Promoter  in   
155
  digital tools, training and the mindset to  Score  among  our  European  international  business unit
thousand (n.m.) become  true  life-time  partners,  and  we  peers by 2021. (+34.6%)18
will provide our agents with a commercial 
dashboard that will include: 
    The Generali 2021 strategy, p. 16-17 and p. 21
– 360° view of the customer, including all of 
their products and the past interactions;
– needs-based assessment tools to advice 
    Glossary available at the end of this document
clients based on their stage of life;
– the possibility to personally involve the 
Agent Hub is an initiative focused on supporting the digitalisation of our distribution network, strengthening the 
advisory activity addressed to the customer and digital interaction with the customers.
Mobile & Web Hub is an initiative focused on supporting relationships with our customers, on making management 
of the key insurance operations easier (e.g. claims management) and on making good use of the many platforms. It 
offers customers a simple and quick consultation of their policies using different devices, it emphasises the centrality 
of the relationship with the network of agents and exploits the connectivity and geolocation potentials in order to offer 
personalised services. 
Germany, France, Switzerland, Spain, Italy, Austria, Argentina, Turkey, Portugal and India have joined the initiative. 
The first markets have launched the My Generali application in the stores and soon also the versions of the remaining 
countries will be developed and published. The platform, which is continuously evolving with the collaboration 
provided by the member countries, will also be extended to other business units.
16 The number of customers refers to all entities with core insurance business, banks and pension funds (line-by-line consolidated entities, few insurance entities in Asia measured 
with the equity method where Generali has relevant shareholdings and specific Europ Assistance entities with relevant direct BTC business in Belgium, Italy, France, Spain and 
USA).
17 The number of distributors refers to all entities with core insurance business with relevant traditional distribution networks (line-by-line consolidated entities and few insurance 
entities in Asia measured with the equity method where Generali has relevant shareholdings).
18 The methodology to calculate the KPI has been improved including country split for the following business units: Generali Corporate & Commercial and Europ Assistance.
19 Scope: Generali in Europa, Asia, Argentina and Turkey.