326 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
Statutory Auditors’ Report to the Shareholders’ Meeting of 
Assicurazioni Generali S.p.A. called to approve the Financial 
Statements as at 31 December 2018 pursuant to Art. 153 of 
Legislative Decree 58/1998
Dear Shareholders, of preparing the Company’s Financial Reports, the 
Head of the Group Financial Crime function, Group 
In compliance with the provisions of Article 153 of Leg- General Counsel, Head of Corporate Affairs and Head 
islative Decree no. 58 of 24 February 1998 (“TUIF”), and  of Group Human Resources and Organisation, as well 
the indications contained in Consob notice no. 1025564  as the heads of the corporate functions affected by 
of 6 April 2001, as amended, while taking the princi- the supervisory activity of the Board of Statutory Au-
ples of conduct recommended by the National Council  ditors;
of Chartered Accountants (“NCCA”) into account, the  – pursuant to Art. 74, paragraph 2, of IVASS Regula-
Board of Statutory Auditors of Assicurazioni Generali  tion no. 38 of 3 July 2018, held meetings with, and 
S.p.A. (the “Company”) hereby presents this report on  obtained information from, those responsible for the 
the supervisory activity carried out during the 2018 fi- four fundamental functions envisaged by the afore-
nancial year. mentioned Regulation (Group Audit, Group Compli-
ance, Risk Management, Group Actuarial, the “Fun-
damental Functions”), as well as all of the structures 
1. Activities of the Board of 
that perform control tasks within the Group, ensuring 
Statutory Auditors during the  adequate functional and information connections;
financial year ending on 31  – met the members of the Supervisory Body estab-
December 2018 (point 10 of  lished pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/2001 for 
the purpose of the exchange of information; 
Consob Notice no. 1025564/01)
– pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 of Art. 151 of the TUIF, 
as well as Art. 74, paragraph 3(g) of IVASS Regulation 
The Board of Statutory Auditors performed the activities  no. 38/2018, held meetings and/or exchanged infor-
falling within its scope of duties during the 2018 financial  mation with the control bodies of the main subsidi-
year, holding 34 meetings with an average duration of ap- aries (Alleanza Assicurazioni S.p.A., Banca Generali 
proximately three hours and fifteen minutes. S.p.A., Česká pojišťovna a.s., CityLife S.p.A., Europ 
The Board of Statutory Auditors also: Assistance Italia S.p.A., Generali Allgemeine Versi-
– attended the 14 meetings of the Board of Directors  cherungen AG, Generali Deutschland AG, Generali 
(BoD); España S.A. de Seguros y Reaseguros, Generali In-
– attended the 14 meetings of the Risk and Control  vestment Europe S.p.A., Generali IARD S.A., Generali 
Committee (“RCC”);  Italia S.p.A., Generali Business Solutions S.C.P.A., 
– attended the 3 meetings of the Related-Party Transac- Generali Insurance Asset Management S.p.A. SGR, 
tions Committee (“RPTC”); Generali Investments Holding S.p.A., Generali Invest-
– in the person of its Chairman and/or another statutory  ments Partners S.p.A. SGR, Generali Real Estate 
auditor, attended the 7 meetings of the Appointments  S.p.A., Generali Personenversicherungen AG, Gener-
and Remuneration Committee (“ARC”), with specific  ali Properties S.p.A., GSS – Generali Shared Services 
reference to remuneration matters; S.c. a r.l., Generali Schweiz Holding A.G, Generali 
– in the person of its Chairman and/or other statutory au- Versicherung AG, Generali Vie S.A., Genertel S.p.A., 
ditor, attended the 11 meetings of the Investments and  Genertellife S.p.A.); 
Strategic Operations Committee (“ISOC”); – in the framework of relations between the control 
– in the person of its Chairman and/or another statutory  body and the auditor as provided pursuant to the 
auditor, attended the 9 meetings of the Corporate Gov- third paragraph of Art. 150 of the TUIF and Art. 74, 
ernance and Social and Environmental Sustainability  paragraph 3(e) of IVASS Regulation n. 38/2018, and 
Committee (“GSC”). in light of the duties of the Board of Statutory Audi-
tors as an Internal Control and Audit Committee, held 
In addition to the above activities, in the course of its  specific meetings on a periodic basis with EY S.p.A, 
activity plan, the Board of Statutory Auditors: the company appointed to carry out the statutory au-
– held meetings with, and obtained information from  dit. (“EY”), during which data and information relevant 
the Group CEO, also in his role as Director in charge  to the performance of their respective tasks were also 
of the internal control and risk management system,  exchanged.
the Group CEO, also in his role as Manager in Charge 