327  
2. Transactions having a significant 
ships to invest in infrastructure debt, developing prod-
impact on the economic, financial  ucts and solutions for investors;
and asset-based position. Other  – on 16 April 2018, the Company completed the sale 
noteworthy events (point 1 of  of its activities in Panama and Colombia, countries in 
which it remains operational through its Global Busi-
Consob Notice no. 1025564/01)
ness Lines;
– on the same date, the company increased its share 
2.1 Activities performed by the Board of  capital by implementing the Long-Term Incentive Plan 
Statutory Auditors approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting in April 2015. 
Following this increase, the Company’s fully subscribed 
The Board of Statutory Auditors monitored compliance  and paid-up share capital amounts to € 1,565,165,364;
by the Company with the legislation and the Articles of  – in the same month, the Company started the sale of 
Association and observance of the principles of correct  Generali Belgium S.A. The transaction was completed 
administration, with special reference to transactions  in the beginning of January 2019;
having a significant impact on the economic, financial  – in  May  2018,  the  Company  strengthened  its  geo-
and asset-based position, by regularly attending meet- graphical presence in Central and Eastern European 
ings of the Board of Directors and examining the docu- countries through the acquisition of full control of the 
mentation provided. Slovenian  company  Adriatic  Solvenica  zavarovalna 
In this context, the Board of Statutory Auditors received  družba and Polish companies Concordia Capital S.A. 
information from the Managing Director and the Board  and Concordia Polska TUW;
of Directors about the activities performed and transac- – in June 2018, Generali CEE Holding B.V. and UniCredit 
tions with a significant impact on the economic, financial  signed a bancassurance agreement for the distribution 
and asset-based position conducted by the Company,  of insurance solutions in Central and Eastern Europe;
including through directly or indirectly controlled compa- – in the same month, the Company completed the sale 
nies.  of the entire stake in Generali PanEurope DAC, while 
On the basis of the information provided, the Board of  remaining  operational  in  Ireland  through  its  Global 
Statutory Auditors reasonably concludes that the said  Business Lines;
transactions can be deemed to comply with the legisla- – in July 2018, the Company started the sale of 89.9% of 
tion, the Articles of Association and principles of sound  Generali Lebenversicherung AG and signed an agree-
management, and that they do not appear to be mani- ment with Viridium Gruppe, with which the Company 
festly imprudent, precarious or in conflict with the resolu- undertook a larger industrial partnership on the Ger-
tions passed by the Shareholders’ Meeting, or such as to  man insurance market. The transaction is subject to 
prejudice the integrity of the Company’s assets.  the approval of the German Federal Authority for the 
In particular, the Board of Statutory Auditors was in- supervision of the financial sector (BaFin), as well as 
formed about transactions in which Directors declared  that of the competent German antitrust authorities;
an interest either on their own account or on behalf of  – the new organisational structure of the Group was ap-
third parties, and has no comments to make about the  proved in the same month, effective from 1 September 
compliance of the corresponding resolutions with the  2018. The most significant organisational changes in-
legislation and regulations. clude the creation of the position of General Manager, 
who reports directly to the Group CEO, and the ap-
pointment of Cristiano Borean as the new Group CFO;
2.2 Main significant events – in July, the Company also signed an agreement with 
Life Company Consolidation Group for the sale of its 
The most significant events involving the Company and  entire holding in Generali Worldwide Insurance Com-
the Group in 2018 are also reported on in the 2018 Inte- pany Limited, a company based in Guernsey, and 
grated Annual Report and Consolidated Financial State- Generali Link, an Irish company. The transaction was 
ments. They include the following events: completed in March 2019;
– on 6 February 2018, the Company completed the sale  – in October 2018, the Company signed an agreement 
of the entire investment in Generali Nederland N.V. The  for the acquisition of 100% of the Polish asset man-
Group remains operational in the Netherlands through  agement company Union Investments TFI S.A. The 
its Global Business Lines; transaction is subject to the approval of the competent 
– in  March  2018,  Generali  Global  Infrastructure  was  regulatory authorities;
launched, a platform that involves external partner- – in December 2018, the Company acquired 100% of 