328 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
CM Investment Solutions Limited from Bank of Ameri- aforementioned procedures comply with Consob Regu-
ca Merrill Lynch, a company that works in the develop- lation 17221/2010, as amended; the BSA monitored the 
ment of alternative UCITS strategies (Undertakings for  Company’s compliance with the said procedures during 
the Collective Investment of Transferable Securities); the year.
– on 31 December 2018, the Company increased its  Assicurazioni Generali’s 2018 Annual Financial State-
stake to 49% in the Indian insurance partnership Fu- ments and the 2018 Integrated Annual Report and Con-
ture Generali Insurance, a joint venture with Future  solidated Financial Statements illustrate the economic 
Group.  and asset-related effects of the related-party transac-
tions, and describe the most significant relationships. 
No transactions classifiable as major transactions pur-
2.3 Dispute proceedings  suant to the above-mentioned RPT Procedures were 
submitted for the attention of the RPTC during the 2018 
As stated in the 2016 and 2017 Integrated Annual Re- financial year, nor did any urgent related-party transac-
port and Consolidated Financial Statements, the Brazil- tions take place.
ian company Banco BTG Pactual S.A. (“BTG”) initiated a 
dispute in 2016 relating to certain claims for compensa- With regard to intercompany transactions during the 
tion made by BTG pursuant to an agreement whereby  year, the supervisory activity of the Board of Auditors 
the sale to the latter of Banca della Svizzera Italiana S.A.  shows that they have been implemented in compliance 
(“BSI”) by a Generali subsidiary was concluded in Sep- with IVASS Regulation no. 30/2016 on intragroup trans-
tember 2015. actions and risk concentrations, as well as the Policy on 
In this regard, the Board of Statutory Auditors received  Infra-Group Transactions adopted by the Board of Di-
periodic updates from Group Legal Affairs on the evolu- rectors on 15 March 2017. The main intercompany ac-
tion of the dispute during the meetings of the Board of  tivities, with payment at market prices or at cost, were 
Directors and RRC, and examined the opinions prepared  conducted by means of reinsurance and coinsurance 
by external lawyers. The Board of Statutory Auditors also  agreements, administration and management of securi-
met the Manager in Charge of preparing the Company’s  ties and real estate, claims management and settlement, 
Financial Reports and the auditing firm EY, with a view  IT and administrative services, loans and guarantees, 
to monitoring the process conducted by them, insofar  and personnel loans. Said services allowed the ration-
as falls within their respective remits, for the purpose of  alisation of operational functions and a better level of 
conducting the necessary evaluations relating to possi- services.
ble provisions pursuant to IAS 37 as well as the corre-
sponding disclosure.  The BSA concluded that the information provided by the 
As stated in the 2018 Integrated Annual Report and Con- Board of Directors in the 2018 Annual Financial State-
solidated Financial Statements, the Company, taking into  ments of the company relating to intercompany and re-
account the status of the arbitration proceedings and the  lated-party transactions was adequate.
legal opinions obtained, decided that the conditions of 
probability and ability to make the reliable estimate re- As far as we are aware, no atypical and/or unusual trans-
quired by IAS 37 for any risk provisions associated with  actions were carried out in 2018.
BTG’s said claim for damages. 
4. Organisational structure of the 
3. Related-party and intercompany  Company and the Group (point 12 
transactions. Atypical and/or  of Consob Notice no. 1025564/01)
unusual transactions (points 2 and 3 
of Consob Notice no. 1025564/01)
The organisational structure of the Company and the 
Group and its developments are described in detail in 
The Company has introduced “Related-Party Transaction  the Corporate Governance and Share Ownership Report. 
Procedures” (“RPT Procedures”), adopted in compliance  The organisational structure of the Company includes the 
with Consob Regulation 17221/2010, as amended, and  duties and responsibilities of the corporate functions, the 
Art. 2391-bis of the Civil Code, which are also applicable  hierarchical and functional relationships between, them 
to transactions performed by subsidiaries.  and related coordination mechanisms. This is based on 
The  Board  of  Statutory  Auditors  concludes  that  the  two dimensions: the Group Head Office (“GHO”) and 