32 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
NFS
Environmental challenges 
with increased claims in coverage tied to the phenomena 
influenced by the climate and, as a result, costs for the 
Climate changes, a consequence of the global warming  related products. On the other hand, there will also be 
caused by the anthropic emissions of greenhouse gases,  transition risks for coping with the change. They include 
will produce direct or indirect effects that will become  new financial risks (e.g. creation of stranded assets), lower 
increasingly evident as time goes by. This will lead to  revenues if leaving the segments tied to fossil fuels were 
increased risks. On the one hand, it is a question of  not to be offset by new flows, for example those arriving 
physical risks that involve not only increased volatility of  from the production of sustainable energy or carbon 
the weather events, but also ecological consequences,  capture and storage. The environmental challenges also 
which without adequate countermeasures might become  pose reputational risks for those players that do not 
irreversible and have incalculable economic and social  manage them in the best way possible
effects. The insurance sector as well would be impacted, 
and our management 
excluding business opportunities that are not consistent 
  with principles of environmental, social and governance 
Considering our social role as insurer and institutional  sustainability.  We  then  utilize  internal  and  external 
investor and the underwriting risks to which we are  monitoring  processes  of  greenhouse  gas  emissions 
exposed, climate change is one of the major trends under  associated with the activities in our investment portfolios 
way for us, and is singled out as one of the emerging  and of the insurance exposure to high carbon intensity 
risks for the insurance sector. In order to cope with this  sectors.
situation, we constantly monitor the main perils and  We have published our climate change strategy that 
territories to which the Group is exposed, using actuarial  includes concrete actions on our core business and 
models to estimate the damage that could result from  that explains our stance on coal and identifies ‘green’ 
natural phenomena and thereby optimize our underwriting  opportunities in the investment and insurance activities. 
strategy. We also measure the underwriting risks and the  We also take part in multi-stakeholder initiatives and 
risk arising from catastrophes using the Group’s internal  in technical round table discussions that facilitates the 
model, which allows us to better capture our risk profile. analysis of the climate change’s impact in the insurance 
We also adopt sustainability criteria for selecting our  sector and that undertake to promote the transition to a 
investments and for the underwriting of new insurance  low environmental impact society.
policies that are in line with the best and universally 
recognized standards, even through the use of specific 
    The Generali 2021 strategy, p. 21-22
third-party tools while analysing in detail and potentially 
MACRO-ECONOMIC 
CONTEXT
FINANCIAL 
           REGULATORY  MARKETS
DEVELOPMENTS TECHNOLOGY AND
DIGITALIZATION BIG DATA
CLIMATE 
DEMOGRAPHIC 
CHANGE CHANGE