329  
Business Units. While the GHO acts as a strategic guid- Through the activity described in paragraph 1, the BSA 
ance structure, it leads and coordinates the Business  supervised the adequacy of the overall organisational 
Units, which value entrepreneurship and local autonomy. structure of the Company and Group, verifying the suit-
Organisational governance takes place through integra- ability of the definition of the proxies, and paying particu-
tion and coordination mechanisms between the Busi- lar attention to the separation of responsibilities in the 
ness Units and the Group Head Office functions, repre- tasks and functions pursuant to Art. 74, paragraph 3(b) 
sented by: of IVASS Regulation no. 38/2018. 
– the Group Management Committee (“GMC”), which  The BSA also supervised the adequacy of the instruc-
supports the Group CEO and top management in shar- tions given by the Company to subsidiaries pursuant 
ing the main strategic decisions; to Art. 114, paragraph 2, of the TUIF for the purpose of 
– the three main cross-functional committees that sup- promptly obtaining the information necessary to comply 
port the Group CEO in addressing the Group’s stra- with the disclosure obligations required by law and by 
tegic decisions: Balance Sheet Committee, Finance  Regulation (EU) no. 596/2014.
Committee, Product & Underwriting Committee; As required by paragraphs 1 and 2 of Art. 151 of the TUIF 
– Business Strategic Reviews, Clearance Meetings and  and by Art. 74, paragraph 3(g) of IVASS Regulation n. 
Capital & Cash Deep Dives, which ensure the align- 38/2018, the Board of Statutory Auditors acquired the 
ment between the GHO and the Business Units with a  reports of the control bodies of the main subsidiaries 
respective focus on strategic actions and discussions,  and/or information provided by them following specific 
economic-financial performance, remittance and capi- requests; no elements worthy of mention emerged in this 
tal optimisation; Report from the analysis of this documentation. 
– the Functional Guidelines and Functional Councils, 
through which functional coordination is implemented 
5. Internal Control and 
at global level;
– a matrix system of reporting lines, classified as “solid”  Risk Management System, 
or “dotted” according to the intensity of guidance and  administrative/accounting system 
coordination between the GHO Functions and the  and financial reporting process 
corresponding functions in the Business Units. The 
(points 13 and 14 of Consob Notice 
“solid” departments, which have hierarchical report-
no. 1025564/01)
ing that is carried out more directly and systematically 
by the GHO, are the Group Chief Risk Officer, Group 
General Counsel, including Group Compliance and  5.1. Internal Control and Risk 
the Group Audit; the other Group Functions are “dot- Management System
ted”.
The main features of the internal control and risk man-
On 31 July 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors ap- agement system are described in the Report on Cor-
proved the adoption of a new organisational model, ef- porate Governance and Ownership Structure and the 
fective as of 1 September 2018. This new model involved: Group Risk Report (included in the Annual Integrated Re-
– the creation of the position of General Manager, report- port and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018).
ing directly to the Group CEO, to which Frédéric de  The  internal  control  and  risk  management  system 
Courtois was appointed; (“ICRMS”) is formed by the rules, procedures and cor-
– the re-definition of the scope of the role of CEO of GBL  porate structures that operate - also in regard to the role 
& International, renamed CEO International; this posi- of the Company as the parent company of an insurance 
tion is held by Jaime Anchùstegui; group - in order to allow the effective functioning of the 
– the extension of the scope of responsibility of Marco  Company and Group, and to identify, manage and moni-
Sesana, Country Manager Italy, to include Global Busi- tor the main risks to which they are exposed. The ICRMS 
ness Lines, as well as the extension of the scope of re- is an integrated system that involves the entire organisa-
sponsibility of Jean-Laurent Granier, Country Manager  tional structure.
France, to include Europ Assistance; The Group Audit, Group Compliance, Group Risk Man-
– the appointment of Cristiano Borean as the new Group  agement, and Group Actuarial Functions constitute the 
CFO,  following  the  termination  of  the  employment  Fundamental Functions pursuant to IVASS Regulation 
relationship between the Company and the previous  no. 38/2018. In order to ensure a consistent approach at 
Group CFO, Luigi Lubelli. Cristiano Borean therefore  a Group level, the Company defines the Group guidelines 
also joined the GMC. on the governance system supplemented by the inter-