330 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
nal control and risk management policies of the Group,  which repealed the previous IVASS Regulation no. 20 of 
which apply to all companies. 26 March 2008. The latter remained in force until the pub-
The ICRMS was defined in accordance with the terms  lication of new secondary legislation, and was applicable 
of Solvency II, including delegated acts and guidelines  for the first part of the financial year in question.
issued on the subject by EIOPA, and with the legislative 
and regulatory provisions transposed at a national level.  IVASS Regulation no. 38/2018, involved a revision of the 
Following the issue by the Regulator of authorisation to  corporate governance system of insurance companies: 
use a “Partial Internal Model” (PIM) to calculate the Sol- the Company promptly initiated a gap analysis between 
vency Capital Requirement (SCR) as required by Solven- the governance structure, the most important Group 
cy II, the Group is allowed to use the PIM to determine  corporate controls and processes, and the model out-
the SCR of the Group and the main Business Units for  lined by the aforementioned Regulation. Consequently, 
the Italian, German, French and Czech companies. For  the relative implementation activities and appropriate 
further details, see the Group Risk Report. coordination methods were identified amongst the vari-
During 2018, in compliance with Solvency II, the Group  ous functions to which the individual actions have been 
updated or defined the related internal group policies  delegated. 
aimed at pursuing the following objectives: The interventions on the role of the Chairman and the 
– to standardise the ICRMS, establishing the roles and  Board Committees, the organisational structure of the 
responsibilities of corporate structures to which the  Fundamental Functions and the effective and efficient 
Fundamental Functions are entrusted; performance of their respective functions, as well as the 
– establishing the processes associated with the man- updating of internal regulations of the Board of Directors 
agement of specific risks (investment, underwriting,  and Committees were immediately implemented, and 
concentration and operational risks) and the main busi- approved by the Board of Directors at the meeting of 12 
ness processes (including capital management, the as- December 2018. On 30 January 2019, the Board of Di-
set liability management process and the product ap- rectors also approved some amendments to the Articles 
proval process). of Association for compliance with the aforementioned 
IVASS Regulation no. 38/2018 for aspects relative to the 
Although the Company is no longer among the systemic  provisions of the articles of association on the compo-
entities, Group controls were also confirmed in 2018  sition of the Executive Committee, which was not insti-
with the updating of the Systemic Risk Management  tuted by the Company.
Plan, Liquidity Risk Management Plan and Recovery  The other implementation activities, for which the transi-
Plan, the latter also in light of the recent provisions of  tional provision of Art. 95, paragraph 1, of IVASS Regula-
IVASS Regulation no. 38/2018 on reinforced emergency  tion n. 38/2018 requires the adjustment by 31 December 
plans.  2019 and the adoption of the appropriate resolutions 
within the first half of 2019, have been almost completely 
The Company monitored legislative developments dur- completed within the first quarter of the current year. The 
ing the year, activated compliance-checking plans and  remaining activities are being finalised, and are expected 
continued its ongoing reinforcement of the procedural  to be completed within the first half of 2019, in full com-
structure, as described in the parent company’s Risk  pliance with the regulatory deadline. 
Report, Annual Integrated Report, and Consolidated Fi- The  BSA  has  constantly  monitored  the  activities  of 
nancial Statements 2018. The Internal Control and Risk  adapting the governance structure of the Company and 
Management System policies are also adopted by the  Group to IVASS Regulation n. 38/2018, receiving periodic 
main subsidiaries, having regard to the specific legisla- information from the company functions involved, and 
tion in each country in which the Group operates, and  formulating recommendations and suggestions where 
any special features of the business. These policies are  deemed appropriate. 
continuously updated.
In the context of constant development and reinforce-
During 2018, based on the results of the monitoring of  ment of controls, in accordance with the applicable in-
the Group Compliance Function, the Group has adapted  dustry regulations, the Board of Statutory Auditors has 
to new significant regulations, including the European  constantly monitored the adequacy of the ICRMS of the 
Directive on Insurance Distribution (and related local im- Company and its Group, verifying their effective opera-
plementing legislation) and the European Regulation on  tion. In particular, in taking into account the provisions of 
Personal Data Protection (GDPR). Art. 74 of IVASS Regulation n. 38/2018 recently entered 
IVASS Regulation no. 38/2018 was issued on 3 July 2018,  into force, the BSA has: 