332 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
etc.), additional reinforcement of the internal control  dures adopted enable the Company to establish that the 
system has been planned, with specific joint actions  companies controlled and incorporated by it which are 
by the Group Audit and Group Compliance Functions. governed by the legislation of countries not belonging to 
the European Union and are required to comply with the 
The aforementioned activities will be subject to specific  Consob regulations have an administrative/accounting 
monitoring by the Board of Statutory Auditors during the  system suitable to supply the Company’s management 
2019 financial year. and external auditors regularly with the economic, capital 
and financial data required to draw up the consolidated 
In light of all the above information and having regard to  financial statements. At 31 December 2018, the following 
the above-mentioned areas of attention and taking the  are non-EU companies relevant for the purposes of the 
development of ICRMS into account, no factors emerged  Market  Regulation:  Generali  Personenversicherungen 
from the analyses conducted or the information obtained  AG, Generali (Schweiz) Holding AG and Generali China 
that could lead this BSA to consider the Company’s In- Life Insurance Co. Ltd.
ternal Control and Risk Management System as not ad-
equate as a whole. 
5.3. Consolidated Non-Financial 
Statement
5.2. Administrative accounting system 
and financial reporting process. The Board of Statutory Auditors points out that, pursuant 
to Legislative Decree no. 254/2016 and the related imple-
As regards the administrative accounting system and the  menting regulation issued by CONSOB with resolution 
financial reporting process, the Board of Statutory Audi- no. 20267 of 18 January 2018, the Company is required 
tors monitored (inter alia) the Company’s activities de- to prepare and publish a Consolidated Non-Financial 
signed to assess their adequacy and effective operation  Statement  (“CNFS”). As required by Art. 4 of Legisla-
on a continuous basis.  tive Decree no. 254/2016, said Statement provides non-
The Company pursued this objective by adopting a “fi- financial information relating to the Company and its 
nancial reporting model” consisting of a set of principles,  subsidiaries “to the extent required to ensure compre-
rules and procedures designed to guarantee an ade- hension of the group’s business, trend and results, and 
quate administrative and accounting system. In line with  the impact produced by it”. 
the Company’s ICRMS, the financial reporting model in- As specified in Art. 3, para.7 of Legislative Decree no. 
volves the corporate bodies and operating and control  254/2016, the Board of Statutory Auditors, in the perfor-
structures in integrated management, in compliance with  mance of its statutory functions, monitored compliance 
the different levels of responsibility. The main character- with the legislation governing the preparation and pub-
istics of the model are described in the Corporate Gov- lication of the CNFS. In particular, the BSA supervised 
ernance and Share Ownership Report.   the adequacy of the organisational structures adopted 
Data and information relevant to the performance of their  by the Group based on the strategic objectives it pur-
respective tasks pursuant to Art. 150, para. 3, TUIF and  sued in the social-environmental field, and on the ad-
Art. 74, para. 3(e) of IVASS Regulation n. 38/2018 were  equacy of the processes and structures that govern the 
exchanged with the managers of the auditing firm, and  production,  reporting,  measurement  and  representa-
no noteworthy aspects emerged. tion of non-financial results and information within the 
At the meeting of 25 March 2019, the Board of Statutory  Group.
Auditors examined the draft of the additional report pre- To  this  end,  the  BSA  examined  the  documentation 
pared by the auditing company EY pursuant to Art. 11 of  made available by the Company and met the manage-
EU Regulation 537/2014, which reported no significant  ment team responsible for the CNFS disclosure on vari-
shortcomings of the internal control system in relation  ous occasions, an interdisciplinary group that includes 
to the financial reporting process. That report was dis- the Group CFO and Group Risk Management as well as 
cussed and analysed during information exchanges be- the representatives of the auditing company appointed 
tween the Board of Statutory Auditors and auditing firm.  to carry out the statutory audit, which is also entrusted 
As part of its role to oversee the suitability of the adminis- with the task of giving the declaration of conformity pro-
trative-accounting system, the BSA also established, pur- vided for by Art. 3, paragraph 10, of Legislative Decree 
suant to Art. 15 of the Market Regulation of 28 December  no. 254/2016 in a specific report.
2017, that the Company’s organisation and the proce- The Board of Directors approved the CNFS on 13 March 