333  
2019. It was drafted in compliance with Legislative De- – analysed the administrative procedures adopted for 
cree 254/2016 on the disclosure of non-financial infor- handling,  safekeeping  and  accounting  of  financial 
mation relating to environmental and social issues relat- instruments, checking the instructions issued to de-
ing to personnel, respect for human rights and the fight  positaries regarding periodic despatch of statements 
against corruption. The criteria of the International <IR>  of account with suitable indications of any encum-
Framework have also been applied in the preparation of  brances;
the CNFS, issued by the International Integrated Report- – checked that the assets destined for covering the 
ing Council (“IIRC”). The standard adopted for report- technical reserves were free of encumbrances and fully 
ing on the material subjects identified by the Group is  available;
represented by the GRI Sustainability Reporting Stand- – verified correspondence with the register of assets 
ard, published in 2016 by GRI Global Reporting Initiative  destined to cover the technical reserves.
(GRI – Referenced claim) with reference to selected GRI 
Standards and indicators of GRI G4 Financial Services  In the Notes to the Financial Statements, the Company 
Sector Disclosures. supplied a report on share-based payment agreements, 
The BSA further noted that the auditing firm EY issued  in particular the incentive plans based on equity instru-
said report on 03 April 2019. In said report, EY certified  ments allocated by the parent company and other com-
that on the basis of the work performed, no information  panies belonging to the Group.
had come to its attention suggesting that the CNFS was 
not drawn up, in all significant respects, in compliance 
7. Organisational and Management 
with the terms of Arts. 3 and 4 of Legislative Decree no. 
254/2016 and the reporting standard used by the Group  Model pursuant to Legislative 
to prepare the CNFS. Decree no. 231/2001
The Board of Statutory Auditors observes that in the 
course of the controls conducted and specified above, 
no evidence of non-conformity by the CNFS with the leg- The Board of Statutory Auditors has perused and ob-
islative provisions governing its preparation and publica- tained information about the organisational and proce-
tion came to its attention. dural activities conducted pursuant to Legislative Decree 
When drawing up the Consolidated Non-Financial State- 231/2001, as amended, regarding the administrative li-
ment, the Company did not exercise the option to omit  ability of organisations. The main aspects related to or-
information  concerning  imminent  developments  and  ganisational and procedural activities implemented by 
transactions under negotiation allowed by Art. 3, para. 8  the Company pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/2001 
of Legislative Decree 254/2016. are represented in the Report on corporate governance 
and ownership structure. 
No noteworthy facts and/or circumstances emerged from 
6. Other activities performed by the 
the report submitted by the Surveillance Body regarding 
Board of Statutory Auditors  the activities performed. 
8. Ratification of the Corporate 
In addition to the matters described above, the Board 
of Statutory Auditors performed further specific periodic  Governance Code, Composition 
checks in accordance with the statutory and regulatory  of the Board of Directors, and 
provisions applicable to the insurance industry.  remuneration (point 17 of Consob 
Namely, the BSA, partly by attending meetings of the 
Notice no. 1025564/01)
RRC:
– supervised compliance with the guidelines on invest-
ment policies approved by the Board of Directors, pur- The Company has ratified the Corporate Governance 
suant to Art. 8 of IVASS Regulation n. 24 of 6 June  Code issued by the Corporate Governance Commit-
2016; tee promoted by Borsa Italiana S.p.A. The compliance 
– checked that transactions in derivative financial instru- checklist with the principles and criteria established by 
ments complied with the guidelines and limitations is- the Self-Governance Code is shown in the Disclosure 
sued by the Board of Directors, and checked that the  Compendium to the Report on Corporate Governance 
Company had duly submitted periodic communica- and Ownership Structure 2018, available on the Com-
tions to IVASS;  pany’s website, to which reference is made.