334 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
This Board of Statutory Auditors has evaluated the pro- its own independence requirements were met, sending 
cedures for concrete implementation of the Code in  such to the Board of Directors are required by the Self-
question, with reference to the principles and application  Governance Code. 
criteria, and has no comments to make on them.  In light of the policies and operating guidelines provided 
The Board of Statutory Auditors notes that the Board of  for by the Company, the Board of Directors conducted 
Directors has evaluated the operation, size and compo- its assessments of whether the independence require-
sition of the Board of Directors and the Board Commit- ment is met on the basis of all the information available 
tees. The Board Review process for the 2018 financial  to the Company in any way, and on the basis of specific 
year, which involved all Directors and the Chair of the  supplementary declarations, designed to obtain from Di-
BSA, was conducted by means of a questionnaire de- rectors stating themselves as independent precise, ac-
veloped by a main external consulting company, accom- curate information about the existence of any commer-
panied by interviews aimed at enhancing the individual  cial, financial or professional relations, relations involving 
contribution of each Director. In order to ensure the con- self-employment or employment or other pecuniary or 
fidentiality of responses and monitor their consolidation  professional relations, which are relevant as defined in 
process, the results of the procedure were managed by  the Corporate Governance Code and the TUIF. 
the external consultant who reported to the GSC and 
Corporate Affairs Function. The results of the Board  The BSA notes that the Board of Directors has adopted 
review were presented, shared and discussed by the  a specific top management succession policy and plan.
Board of Directors in the meetings of 12 December 2018  The BSA has no comments to make about the consisten-
and 30 January 2019, in which the Board of Statutory  cy of the remuneration policy with the recommendations 
Auditors took part. of the Corporate Governance Code and its compliance 
The Board of Statutory Auditors acknowledges that, in  with IVASS Regulation n. 38/2018. 
compliance with the recommendations of the Self-Gov-
ernance Code, the outcomes of the Board review have 
9. External audit (points 4, 7, 8 
been taken into consideration by the GSC and the Board 
of Directors - supported by the ARC - for the purposes  and 16 of Consob Notice no. 
of drafting the “Opinion for Shareholders on the size and  1025564/01)
composition of the Board of Directors for the three-year 
period 2019-2021”. This opinion was approved by the 
Board of Directors on 20 February 2019, as previously  9.1. Activities of the Board of Statutory 
sent to the Board of Statutory Auditors, and was the  Auditors for the financial year 2018 
subject of prior publication with respect to the date of 
the Shareholders’ Meeting called to appoint the Board  The firm EY S.p.A. was appointed as External Auditors 
of Directors for the three-year period of 2019-2021, so  to audit the financial statements of the Company and the 
that the Shareholders could take the assessments car- consolidated financial statements of the Group for the 
ried out by the BSA and its recommendations into ac- 2012-2020 period by EY. During the 2018 financial year, 
count in the selection of the candidates with adequate  the auditing firm verified that the Company’s accounts 
advance notice with respect to the last date of filing of  were properly kept and transactions properly recorded in 
the lists.  accounting records. 
On 3 April 2019, the independent auditors issued the re-
In the early months of 2019, in line with the recommen- ports pursuant to Articles 14 and 16 of Legislative De-
dations of Regulation Q.1.1 of the Rules of Conduct of  cree 39/2010, respectively for the financial statements 
the Board of Statutory Auditors of Listed Companies pre- and consolidated financial statements of the Group as 
pared by the NCCA, the Board of Statutory Auditors also  at 31 December 2018. The said reports indicate that the 
carried out its own self-assessment of its composition  financial statements are drawn up clearly and truthfully 
and operation with the support of the Corporate Affairs  and correctly represent the assets and financial situation, 
Function, providing for the examination and discussion  profit and cash flows for the year ending on that date, 
of the related results in a specific meeting. in compliance with the applicable standards and regula-
tions. 
The Board of Statutory Auditors also checked on the cor- The Manager in Charge of preparing the Company’s Fi-
rect application of the criteria and process initiated by the  nancial Reports and the Managing Director and Group 
Board of Directors to assess the independence of direc- CEO issued the declarations and certifications required 
tors classed as “independent”; it also established that  by s. 154-bis of the TUIF with reference to the financial 