335  
statements and the consolidated financial statements of  Pursuant to Article 19, paragraph 1(e) of Legislative De-
the Company as at 31 December 2018. cree no. 39/2010, the Board of Statutory Auditors, in 
The Board of Statutory Auditors monitored, within the  its capacity as Internal Control and Audit Committee, 
terms of its duties, the general layout of the financial  checked and monitored the independence of the audit-
statements and the consolidated financial statements in  ing firm. In the performance of those checks, no situa-
accordance with the legislation and specific regulations  tions were found that prejudiced the independence of the 
governing  drafting  of  insurance  companies’  financial  auditing firm or constituted grounds for incompatibility 
statements. The BSA recognises that the consolidated  pursuant to the applicable legislation. This is confirmed 
financial statements of the Group were drawn up in  by the statement issued by EY S.p.A. pursuant to Art. 6, 
compliance  with  the  IAS/IFRS  International  Account- para. 2(a) of Reg. EU 537/2014.
ing Standards issued by the IASB and approved by the  With reference to non-audit services, at the request and 
European Union, in compliance with EU Regulation no.  with the support of the BSA, on 1 January 2017 the Com-
1606 of 19 July 2002 and the TUIF, and Legislative De- pany adopted a specific procedure aimed at governing 
cree 209/2005, as amended. The consolidated financial  the appointment of the auditing firm and a company be-
statements were also drawn up on the basis of the re- longing to their network of permitted services other than 
quirements of ISVAP Regulation no. 7 of 13 July 2007, as  audits (“Guideline for the assignment of non-audit servic-
amended, and contain the information required by Con- es to auditors”). During 2018, the Board of Statutory Au-
sob Notice no. 6064293 of 28 July 2006. The Explanatory  ditors supervised the implementation of some changes 
Notes to the Financial Statements illustrate the evalua- to the Guidelines as mentioned above, aimed at aligning 
tion criteria used, and provide the information required by  them with the interpretative development of current leg-
applicable legislation. islation and applicable practices. This review process led 
The Report on Operations annexed to the draft financial  to the adoption of an updated version of the Guidelines 
statements of the parent company illustrates the busi- on 6 July 2018. After that date, the BSA requested that 
ness trend, indicating current and prospective develop- further processes be implemented to raise awareness 
ments, as well as the Group’s development and reorgani- among Group companies as regards the correct applica-
sation process.  tion of the new Guidelines. 
Together with the independent auditors and the Manager  During the 2018 financial year, in compliance with the 
in Charge of preparing the Company’s Financial Reports,  provisions of Art. 19, paragraph 1(e) of Legislative De-
the Board of Statutory Auditors was heard by the RCC  cree 39/2010 and Art. 5, par. 4, of Reg. EU 537/2014, 
in the context of the assessments for which the latter is  the Board of Statutory Auditors, in its role as the Internal 
responsible, together with the Manager in Charge of pre- Control and Audit Committee, previously examined the 
paring the Company’s Financial Reports as regards the  proposals for non-audit services conferred on the inde-
correct use of accounting principles and the consistency  pendent auditors or companies belonging to the relevant 
of their use for the purposes of preparing the consoli- network subject to its attention. 
dated financial statements. As part of its assessments, the Board of Statutory Audi-
On 03 April 2019, EY issued its additional report to the  tors has not only verified the compatibility of these ser-
Board of Statutory Auditors, in its capacity as Internal  vices with the prohibitions of Art. 5 of Reg. EU 537/2014, 
Control and Audit Committee pursuant to Art. 11 of EU  but also the absence of potential risks for the independ-
537/2014. In compliance with the provisions of Art. 19,  ence of the auditor deriving from the performance of said 
paragraph 1(a), of Legislative Decree 39/2010, the BSA  services in light of the provisions contained in Legislative 
sent this report in a timely manner to the Board of Direc- Decree 39/2010 (Articles 10 et seq.), in the Issuers Regu-
tors, without making comments. lation (Art. 149-bis and following) and Audit Principle n. 
  100. 
The BSA also held meetings with the heads of the audit- As the statutory pre-requisites were fulfilled, the BSA 
ing company EY pursuant to Art. 150, paragraph 3, of the  approved the commissioning of the service from EY or 
TUIF and Art. 74, paragraph 3(e) of IVASS Regulation no.  other companies belonging to its network.
38/2018. During said meetings, appropriate exchanges  The fees for non-audit services by the auditing firm or 
of data and information took place that were relevant for  other companies belonging to their network for the com-
the performance of the respective tasks, and no facts or  pany and its subsidiaries in the 2018 financial year are 
situations worthy of being highlighted emerged. In the  disclosed in detail in the Notes to the Financial State-
context of supervision pursuant to Art. 19 of Legislative  ments. During the year, the Board of Statutory Auditors, 
Decree 39/2010, the Board of Statutory Auditors also ac- as the Internal Control and Audit Committee, supervised 
quired information from EY with reference to the planning  the trend of said fees.
and execution of the audit.