336 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
9.2. Activities of the Board of Statutory  In compliance with applicable legislation, auditing com-
Auditors in view of the conferment of the  panies having the competence and experience in the 
appointment of the statutory audit of the  statutory audit of issuers with listed shares, as well as 
accounts for the nine-year period 2021- knowledge and structures suitable for carrying out the 
2029 audit engagement in a group international operating in 
the insurance sector were invited to take part in the se-
In March 2018, the Board of Statutory Auditors, in its  lection procedure. 
capacity as the Internal Control and Audit Commit- The Board of Statutory Auditors examined in detail the 
tee, together with the Group CFO structure and the  proposals received from the candidate companies and 
other competent corporate functions, started the se- met their respective representatives, all with the support 
lection procedure aimed at identifying the new audit- of specialised external consultants and competent cor-
ing company to be appointed for the nine-year period  porate structures. 
2021-2029. The decision to undertake this procedure  During individual stages of the selection process, the 
before the expiry of the EY mandate (2020) was first  BSA held discussions with the internal control and au-
and foremost dictated by the need to ensure compli- diting committees of subsidiaries which can be qualified 
ance with the independent auditor’s forecasts pursuant  as PIEs so as to organise the evaluation task, to define 
to EU Regulation no. 537/2014, to which the Company  its methodologies and timing and to share the results. 
is subject by virtue of its status as a “public interest  Maintaining that flow of information has enabled the BSA 
entity” (PIE).  to coordinate the selection process of just one auditor 
Art. 5 of EU Regulation n. 537/2014 identifies specific  of the group, although each subsidiary is responsible for 
services that the auditor and entities belonging to the  making its decision.
relevant network cannot provide to the institution of in- At the end of the tender, in the meeting of 4 March 2019, 
terest and to the companies controlled by it also in the  the Board of Statutory Auditors approved the recom-
year immediately preceding the first object of the audit  mendation requested pursuant to Art. 16, par. 2, of EU 
assignment (“cooling-in period”) (in the case of Generali,  Regulation no. 537/2014, which was made available to 
in 2020). the Company’s Shareholders in view of the Shareholders’ 
Secondly, the appointment of the new auditor prior to  Meeting for the approval of the financial statements as at 
the expiry of the one in office facilitates handover from  31 December 2018, as called to resolve on the assign-
the outgoing to the incoming auditor. This would allow  ment of the audit appointment. 
for dealing more efficaciously with the lesser knowl- As part of the Recommendation, in compliance with the 
edge about the PIE and its group the incoming auditor  provisions of Art. 16 of EU Regulation n. 537/2014, the 
would inevitably have more knowledge of the PIE and  Board of Statutory Auditors indicated two potential al-
the group, in the hopes of obtaining a better quality of  ternatives for appointment and expressed its duly justi-
statutory audit. fied preference for one of the two candidates. The Rec-
In compliance with the provisions of Art. 16 of EU Regu- ommendation also contains a detailed illustration of the 
lation n. 537/2014, the procedure for selecting the new  phases in which the selective procedure was articulated, 
auditor was carried out in a fully transparent and trace- the selection criteria that were applied and the results 
able manner, and was conducted on the basis of clear  of the assessments performed by the Board of Statutory 
and non-discriminatory assessment criteria. Auditors.
The subject of the selection procedure also included 
auditing the financial statements of Italian and foreign 
10. Opinions issued by the Board 
companies subject to the control of the Company pur-
suant to Art. 93 of the TUIF, including other PIEs. The  of Statutory Auditors during the 
BSA agreed with the Company, as well as with the con- financial year (point 9 of Consob 
trol bodies of subsidiaries, that the assignment of the  Notice no. 1025564/01)
audit assignment concerning the accounts of the entire 
Group to a single subject allows for greater efficiency 
and quality in the performance of the audit. The single  During the year, the Board of Statutory Auditors also is-
auditor approach also satisfies the requirement of en- sued the opinions, comments and attestations required 
suring greater uniformity in application of the rules on  by the applicable legislation. 
the issue of the independence of the auditor are not  At the meeting of the Board of Directors held on 30 Janu-
only for PIEs, but also to their parent and subsidiary  ary 2018, the Board of Statutory Auditors expressed a fa-
companies. vourable opinion of the remuneration of the Group Audit 