337  
Manager (summary of 2017 targets and setting of 2018  below, within the limits permitted by the regulatory re-
targets) and the Audit Plan for 2018. strictions on the protection of personal data.
During the meeting of the Board of Directors on 14 March  The Board has found that ownership of the package of 
2018, the BSA expressed a favourable opinion pursuant  shares of Il Sole 24 Ore in question was attributable to 
to Art. 2389 of the Civil Code with respect to the proposal  GPE, and ascertained that the proxy to participate in the 
to assign the newly issued shares to the Chief Executive  Shareholders’ Meeting of Il Sole 24 Ore of 28 June 2017, 
Officer (Group CEO) as part of the resolution to increase  which did not provide for voting instructions, was duly 
the share capital as part of the 2015 LTI plan. Again with  issued by GPE personnel with the necessary powers of 
reference to the Group CEO’s remuneration, on 29 June  signature.  
2018 the Board of Statutory Auditors, expressed a fa- Finally, as regards the request for clarification from the 
vourable opinion of the Group CEO’s remuneration as  shareholder Marino on the potential attribution to the del-
part of the LTI Plan 2018.  egated subject of additional proxies by third parties in 
At the meeting of the Board of Directors on 30 July 2018,  addition to that conferred by GPE, these are profiles that 
pursuant to Art. 154-bis, paragraph 1, of the TUIF and  are beyond the legal scope of this Board of Statutory Au-
Art. 40, paragraph 2, of the Articles of Association, the  ditors, referring them, if applicable, to that of the control 
Board of Statutory Auditors also expressed a favourable  body of Il Sole 24 Ore.
opinion on the proposal to appoint Cristiano Borean as 
the new Manager in Charge of preparing the Company’s  On 27 December 2018, shareholder Tommaso Marino 
Financial Reports.  sent a new complaint via certified email to the Company 
During the 2018 financial year the BSA also regularly  pursuant to Art. 2408 of the Civil Code, addressed to the 
commented on the Half-Year Reports on complaints pre- Board of Statutory Auditors, in which he complained:
pared by the Head of the Group Audit Function in com- (i)   to have requested the Assicurazioni Generali Foun-
pliance with ISVAP Regulation no. 24 of 19 May 2008,  dation The Human Safety Net (the “Foundation”) 
as amended. The reports did not highlight any particular  to be able to view the financial statements and to 
problems or organisational deficiencies. The BSA also  have been refused; and
checked that the Company sent the reports and associ- (ii)  the alleged failure to implement Art. 3 of the Articles 
ated comments by the BSA promptly to IVASS. of Association of the Foundation, as it was, in his 
opinion, almost totally lacking application due to 
the alleged lack of support to  “Social, health and 
11. Complaints pursuant to 
social-health assistance (with specific reference to 
Art. 2408 of the Civil Code.  the disabled, ed.); charity, education, and training” 
Omissions, reprehensible actions  sectors.
or irregularities found (points 5, 
With the support of the competent functions of the Com-
6 and 18 of Consob Notice no. 
pany, the Board of Statutory Auditors therefore acquired 
1025564/01)
and examined the articles of association of the Founda-
tion, a disclosure on the composition of its administrative 
The Board of Statutory Auditors received two communi- and control bodies and the Foundation’s financial state-
cations pursuant to s. 2408 of the Civil Code during the  ments approved by the Board of Directors on 14 Febru-
2018 financial year.  ary 2018. 
In relation to the first reason for the complaint, the Board 
On 21 April 2018, the shareholder Tommaso Marino for- of Statutory Auditors noted that the legislation applica-
warded a complaint pursuant to Art. 2408 of the Civil  ble to the Foundation does not provide any legal ob-
Code, by which he requested the Board of Statutory  ligation to make the financial statements public. This 
Auditors to verify the correctness and legitimacy of the  obligation can neither be inferred from the regulations 
proxy issued by Generali PanEurope DAC (“GPE”), an  applicable to foundations (Presidential Decree No. 361 
Irish company at the time wholly controlled by the Com- of 10 February 2000), nor from the fact that the founding 
pany, to attend the Shareholders’ Meeting of Il Sole 24  entity of the Foundation is a listed company such as the 
Ore S.p.A. (“Il Sole 24 Ore”) held in Milan on 28 June  Company. 
2017.  Consequently, the decision of the Foundation not to 
The Board of Statutory Auditors immediately involved the  make its own financial statements available to the re-
competent corporate functions in order to carry out the  questing party is to be considered legitimate.
appropriate checks, discussing the outcomes reported  In relation to the second ground of complaint, the Board 