Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 33  
NFS
Demographic and social change 
are  affected  by  a  reduced  and  often  discontinuous 
capacity to generate average income; this is strongly 
Modern  communities  continue  to  be  influenced  by  influenced by a flexible but precarious labour market 
distinct  demographic  and  social  phenomena  with  a  that does not ensure reasonable certainty for financing 
strong impact on their socio-economic balances. the  public  welfare  system.  The  result  is  increasingly 
In Europe, we are witnessing a continual process of  unbalanced communities where higher post-retirement 
population aging, driven by an increase in life expectancy  pension  and  healthcare  requirements  are  no  longer 
and a decrease in birth rates. The international migration  properly financed and covered by the public system, in 
phenomena  only  partially  counter-balance  this  trend,  addition, the limited economic and financial resources 
which is in any case otherwise influenced by socio- produced by the younger categories of the population, or 
political initiatives adopted locally. Outside of Europe, we  from private savings in general, have to be directed and 
are noticing similar phenomena, though of a lower scope  valued more carefully.
compared to the European situation and in any case  In this context of profound changes, the matter of human 
significant on a broader time horizon.  rights grows in importance, especially in the less mature 
In the more mature economies, the younger age groups  economies, where labour law is under development.
and our management
Life products, including pension and welfare products, 
  imply Generali’s acceptance of biometric underwriting 
We actively engage in creating more stable communities  risks,  typically  mortality,  longevity  and  health.  We 
while monitoring and tackling the effects of a changing  therefore need to manage them through the underwriting 
society. This is why we develop and offer flexible and  processes  that  currently  exist,  which  are  based  on 
modular pension and welfare solutions for the coverage  an  updated  assessment  of  the  socio-demographic 
of  healthcare  costs  and  other  potential  current  and  conditions  of  the  population  whose  purpose  is  to 
future needs for individuals, families and communities.  understand their relative trends. We also have pricing 
In particular, we are focusing on the senior customers  and product approval processes that offer a preliminary 
segment with modular solutions that combine savings,  analysis of the cases regarding the biometric factors and 
protection and services in a welfare perspective. We also  a structured governance defined in the Life underwriting 
undertake to strengthen dialogue with individuals during  policy, which is applied at Group level. Lastly, we measure 
their entire period of interaction with our companies  the mortality, longevity and health risks using the Group’s 
through services accessible 24/7. internal risk model.
We  provide  customers  with  complete  and  easily  We also commit ourselves to and monitor the respect 
accessible information on products and services while  of human rights thanks to the Group's guidelines and 
helping them to understand the primary factors that  policies, including the Code of Conduct, the Responsible 
may affect their income capacity and aiding them in  Investment Guideline and the Responsible Underwriting 
accurately assessing their capacity to save as well as  Guideline.
identifying their current and future needs. We believe 
that insurance coverage is the most appropriate tool to 
forecast and meet potential needs of both younger and 
The Generali 2021 strategy, p. 21-22
older individuals with the required advance notice; we 
therefore formulate and present offers even in the case of 
market contexts with little knowledge and low individual 
Our rules for running business with integrity, p. 24
propensity for insurance solutions.