348 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
Glossary
Asset owner: who owns investments and bears the re- Cash and cash equivalents: the item includes cash and 
lated risks. highly-liquid  short-term  financial  investments  (readily 
convertible in specific amounts of cash which are subject 
Attracting talent and development of human capital: in an  to an irrelevant risk of change in value). Furthermore, this 
increasingly competitive and selective market, it is impor- asset class includes also short-term deposits and mon-
tant to be able to count on well-prepared and motivated  ey-market investment funds, which are included in the 
resources that are able to rise to the challenges of the  Group liquidity management.
sector.
Climate change and natural disasters: climate change is 
Average duration: it is defined as the average residual  already taking place and natural disasters are on the rise, 
economic maturity (considering the first call option date)  constituting a threat to global economic development. In 
of the financial debt outstanding as at the reporting date,  this context, the mitigation of climate risks and adapta-
weighted for the nominal amount.  tion strategies are key factors at global level for strength-
ening the resilience of communities.
Business innovation for the digital customer: the spread 
of internet and mobile technology are constantly grow- Cor, combined ratio: it is a technical performance indica-
ing and consumption habits are changing. Changes in  tor of Property & Casualty segment, calculated as the ra-
customer  behavior  during  the  pre-purchase,  signing  tio of net insurance benefits and claims as well as admin-
and post-sale phases of the policy require companies to  istration and acquisition costs to net earned premiums. In 
adopt a multi-channel communication strategy, to imple- other words, it is the sum of loss ratio and expense ratio.
ment technological systems capable of meeting needs 
and guaranteeing security in the management of pur- Current year loss ratio: it is a further detail of combined 
chasing data. ratio calculated as the ratio of:
– current year incurred claims + related claims manage-
Capitals: stocks of value as inputs to the business model.  ment costs net of recoveries and reinsurance; to
They are increased, decreased or transformed through  – net earned premiums.
the  organization’s  business  activities  and  outputs. 
The capitals are categorized in the International <IR>  Customer: either a physical person or a legal entity that 
Framework as: holds at least one active insurance policy and pays a 
– financial capital: the pool of funds that is available to  premium to Generali accordingly, a banking product or 
an organization for use in the production of goods or  a pension fund product (the policy/the product is either 
the provision of services, obtained through financing,  with Generali, or other non-Generali local brand, or white 
such as debt, equity or grants, or generated through  labelled).
operations or investments;
– manufactured capital: manufactured physical objects  Customer T-NPS (Transactional Net Promoter System): 
(as distinct from natural physical objects) that are avail- NPS approach to get a systematic feedback from cus-
able to an organization for use in the production of  tomers after specific transactions (purchase, claims han-
goods or the provision of services; dling, etc.) selected locally. A survey is sent via email to 
– intellectual capital: organizational, knowledge-based  customers to assess their propensity to recommend – or 
intangibles; not – Generali to their closest persons (family members, 
– human  capital:  people’s  competencies,  capabilities  friends and colleagues) using a scale from 0 to 10. Thanks 
and experience, and their motivations to innovate; to this feedback, the company is able to identify detrac-
– social and relationship capital: the institutions and the  tors (rating from 0 to 6), passives (rating of 7 or 8) and 
relationships within and between communities, groups  promoters (rating of 9 or 10). Each detractor is system-
of stakeholders and other networks, and the ability to  atically called back by a member of Generali to under-
share information to enhance individual and collective  stand the problem faced and solve it (quick wins). Those 
well-being; problems that have a more structural nature - and need, 
– natural capital: all renewable and non-renewable envi- for example a revision of core processes and practices or 
ronmental resources and processes that provide goods  investments - are addressed and solved in a cross-func-
or services that support the past, current or future pros- tional working group (structural improvements), with the 
perity of an organization. aim to provide an outstanding customer experience.