349  
Data and cyber security: the quantity and quality of  Environmental products:
personal data now available is such that they must be  – products designed to promote sustainable transport 
managed carefully and professionally to ensure their con- with reduced environmental impact, including policies 
fidentiality. The risks arising from the computerized man- that reward responsible driving;
agement of acquired data and the vulnerability of sys- – products that support the energy efficiency of build-
tems to external or internal attacks require appropriate  ings;
prevention and protection systems that ensure the pro- – products for covering the risks connected with the pro-
tection of all stakeholders and business continuity. duction of renewable energies;
– products specifically designed to cover catastrophe 
Demographic and social change: migration, new fam- risks or specific environmental damage;
ily structures, new coming generations and the aging  – anti-pollution products.
of the population due to the fall in the birth rate and 
the increase in average life expectancy have relevant  Equity investments: direct investments in quoted and un-
impact on public finances (in the management of both  quoted equity instruments, as well as investment funds 
pensions and health care) and the attitude of citizens  that are mainly exposed to equity investments, including 
towards saving. private equity and hedge funds.
Distribution NPS (Net Promoter System): NPS approach  Equivalent  consolidation  area:  constant  consolidation 
to get a systematic feedback from distributors (including  scope.
brokers and banks). This approach is like T-NPS, but cov-
ers the overall relationship with each distributor and is not  Equivalent terms: constant exchange rates and consoli-
focused on a specific transaction. A questionnaire is sent  dation scope.
via email. As for T-NPS approach, detractor distributors 
are systematically called back to understand the prob- Financial asset: any asset that is:
lem faced and solve it (quick wins). Those problems that  – cash;
have a more structural nature - and need, for example a  – an equity instrument of another entity;
revision of core processes and practices or investments  – a contractual right:
- are addressed and solved in a cross-functional working  – to receive cash or another financial asset from an-
group (structural improvements), with the aim to provide  other entity; or
an outstanding service to our distributors. – to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities 
with another entity under conditions that are poten-
Distributor: sales force within traditional distribution net- tially favorable to the entity; or
works (exclusive agents, non-exclusive agents and em- – a contract that will or may be settled in the entity’s own 
ployed sales force permanently involved in the activities  equity instruments and is:
of promoting and distributing Generali products). – a non-derivative for which the entity is or may be 
obliged to receive a variable number of the entity’s 
Diversity, inclusion and equal opportunities: enhancing  own equity instruments; or
diversity, promoting inclusion and contrasting any kind of  – a derivative that will or may be settled other than by 
discrimination allow us to create the best possible con- the exchange of a fixed amount of cash or anoth-
ditions in our relationships with stakeholders and to pro- er financial asset for a fixed number of the entity’s 
mote targeted behavior to prevent inequalities. own equity instruments. For this purpose, the enti-
ty’s own equity instruments do not include puttable 
Earnings per share: it is equal to the ratio of Group net  financial instruments that are classified as equity 
result and to weighted average number of ordinary shares  instruments.
outstanding.
Financial liability: any liability that is:
Employee engagement and promotion of a common cul- – a contractual obligation:
ture: Strengthening the motivation and commitment of  – to deliver cash or another financial asset to another 
employees to meeting our goals is important for main- entity; or
taining a single, shared company vision. Dialogue and  – to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities 
listening activities and the sharing of information are key  with another entity under conditions that are poten-
aspects for the involvement of employees. tially unfavorable to the entity; or