350 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
– a contract that will or may be settled in the entity’s own  Investments back to unit- and index-linked policies: vari-
equity instruments and is: ous types of investments backing insurance liabilities re-
– a non-derivative for which the entity is or may be  lated to unit and index-linked policies. 
obliged to deliver a variable number of the entity’s 
own equity instruments; or Investment contracts: contracts that have the legal form 
– a derivative that will or may be settled other than by  of insurance contracts but, as they do not substantial-
the exchange of a fixed amount of cash or anoth- ly expose the insurer to significant insurance risk (e.g. 
er financial asset for a fixed number of the entity’s  the mortality risk or similar insurance risks), cannot be 
own equity instruments. For this purpose, the enti- classified as insurance contracts. In accordance with the 
ty’s own equity instruments do not include puttable  definitions of IFRS 4 and IAS 39 these contracts are rec-
financial instruments that are classified as equity  ognized as financial liabilities. 
instruments.
Investments properties: direct investments in properties 
Fixed income instruments: direct investments in govern- held in order to receive rent or to achieve targets for capi-
ment and corporate bonds, loans, term deposits other  tal appreciation, or for both reasons. This asset class also 
than those presented as cash and cash equivalents, and  includes investments funds that are mainly exposed to 
reinsurance deposits. This asset class also includes in- real-estate investments.
vestments funds that are mainly exposed to investments 
or risks similar to direct investments presented within this  Lockup clause: it imposes the unavailability of the shares 
asset class. assigned with respect to some incentive plans (or a spe-
cific share) for a specific time horizon as defined by any 
General account: investments reported in the financial  individual plan. The clause provides for the commitment 
statements (excluding financial assets categorized as  of the issuing Company and potentially of some share-
unit- and index-linked or deriving from pension funds  holders not to pursue selected actions on the equity of 
management) and cash and cash equivalents. They also  the company itself in the period subsequent to a public 
include some liabilities, with features similar to invest- offering.
ments, among which derivative liabilities and REPOs.
London Benchmarking Group (LBG): it is an internation-
Green  and  sustainable  investments:  investments  that  al standard for companies to report their activities in the 
support green and/or social projects, with the explicit  community. It is internationally recognized and follows an 
aim of creating a positive impact and contributing to the  Inputs-Outputs-Impact (IOI) logic, assessing community 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. initiatives in terms of the resources committed (inputs) 
and the results achieved (outputs) and impacts.
Gross direct written premiums: gross written premiums of 
direct business. Mathematical provisions: it is the amount that shall be set 
aside by the insurance company to meet its future obliga-
Gross written premiums (GWP): gross written premiums  tions to policyholders.
of direct business and accepted by third parties.
Net cash inflows: it is an indicator of cash flows gener-
Insurance solutions that encourage sustainable and re- ation of the Life segment. It is equal to the amount of 
sponsible behavior: private sector initiatives integrate and  premiums collected net of benefits paid.
promote public policies to support a healthier and more 
sustainable way of life. Raising awareness among peo- Net operating cash: it measures the cash generation of 
ple and promoting the adoption of behaviors that prevent  the Parent Company. It results from the sum of dividends 
risks or reduce the intensity of damage produce shared  paid by Group subsidiaries, net result of Group reinsur-
value for all the stakeholders involved. ance activities, administrative costs, interest expenses 
paid and net balance relating to taxes.
Integrated report: concise communication that illustrates 
how the strategy, governance and future prospects of an  NBM, new business margin: it is a performance indicator 
organization, in the external environment in which it op- of the new business of the Life segment, equal to the ratio 
erates, are used to create value in the short, medium and  of NBV to PVNBP.
long term.