351  
NBV, new business value: it is an indicator of value cre- Prevention of corruption: in a sector based on trust, such 
ated by the ‘new business’ of the Life segment. It is ob- as that of insurance, the promotion of business ethics and 
tained by discounting at the date of new contracts the  the prevention of corruption have a key role in protecting 
corresponding expected profits net of the cost of capital  the company’s reputation and credibility, the efficiency of 
(net of the portion attributable to minority interests). The  the business and fair competition.
margin on PVNBP is intended as a prospective ratio be-
tween profits and premiums. Prior year loss ratio: it is a further detail of combined ratio 
calculated as the ratio of:
Operating earnings per share: it is the ratio of: – previous year incurred claims + related claims manage-
– total operating result net of interest on liabilities linked  ment costs net of recoveries and reinsurance; to
to financing activities, taxes and third-party interests  – net earned premiums.
(as defined in the Methodological note on alternative 
performance measures); to Product and service development: the requirements of 
– the weighted average number of ordinary shares out- customers constantly change and evolve in response to 
standing. the changing scenarios, mega trends and technological 
innovations. Companies must be able to identify needs 
Operating result: result of the period before taxes, before  and to update their offers with a practical approach that 
interest expense on liabilities linked to financing activities,  is in keeping with expectations and with the constantly 
certain net financial income as well as non-recurring costs  changing regulatory framework.
and revenues. For further information, please refer to the 
Methodological note on alternative performance meas- Provisions arising from policies where the investment risk 
ures in the Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated  is borne by the policyholders and from pension funds: 
Financial Statements 2018. they comprise the amounts to be allocated to the poli-
cyholders or to the beneficiaries relating to Life segment 
Operating  return  on  investments:  it  is  an  alternative  products where the risk arising from the underlying finan-
performance measure of both the Life and Property &  cial investments backing the technical liabilities is borne 
Casualty segments, calculated as the ratio of the oper- by the policyholders.
ating result to the average investments at IAS/IFRS book 
value, as described in the Methodological note on alter- Provision for outstanding claims: it comprises the esti-
native performance measures. mated overall amounts which, from a prudent valuation 
based on objective elements, are required to meet the 
Operating RoE (Return on Equity): it is an indicator of  payment of the claims incurred during the current year 
return on capital in terms of the Group operating result.  or the previous ones, and not yet settled, as well as the 
It is calculated as the ratio of adjusted consolidated  related settlement expenses. The outstanding claims pro-
operating result to adjusted average Group sharehold- visions shall be estimated as the total ultimate cost taking 
ers’ equity. For further information, please refer to the  into account all future foreseeable charges, based on re-
Methodological note on alternative performance meas- liable historical and forecast data, as well as the specific 
ures in the Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated  features of the company.
Financial Statements 2018.
Provisions for sums to be paid: technical reserves con-
Other investments: it includes participations in non-con- stituted at the end of each financial year by companies 
solidated companies, associated companies and joint  operating in the Life segment in order to cover the overall 
ventures, derivative investments and receivables from  amounts required to meet the payment of the capitals and 
banks and customers, the latter mainly related to banking  annuities accrued, surrenders and claims outstanding.
activities by some Group companies.
Provision for unearned premiums: it comprises the un-
Outcomes: the internal and external consequences (pos- earned premium component, defined as the part of gross 
itive and negative) for the capitals as a result of an organ- premiums written which is to be allocated to the following 
ization’s business activities and outputs. financial periods, and the provisions for unexpired risk on 
insurance contracts in force in excess of the related un-
P&L return on investments: it is the sum of the current  earned premiums.
return and the harvesting rate net of investment manage-
ment expenses. For further information, please refer to the 
Methodological note on alternative performance measures.