352 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
Quality of the customer experience: in the relations with  life, including products dedicated to the young, to the 
clients it is essential to be able to guarantee a unique and  elderly, to the disabled, to immigrants, to the unem-
distinctive experience, maintaining and strengthening the  ployed and to coverage for professional disabilities, or 
loyalty on which the phases of the customer experience  which in some way support and foster social inclusion; 
are based. – products that promote a more prosperous and stable 
society, with particular attention on small and medi-
Regulatory Solvency Ratio: it is the ratio of the Eligible  um-sized enterprises and people involved in voluntary 
Own Funds to the Group Solvency Capital requirement,  work; products with high pension or microinsurance 
both calculated according to the definitions of the SII re- content;
gime. Own funds are determined net of proposed divi- – products that promote responsible and healthy life-
dend. The ratio has to be intended as preliminary since  styles, leveraging on the opportunities provided by new 
the definitive Regulatory Solvency Ratio will be submitted  technologies, on the importance of preventive health-
to the supervisory authority in accordance with the tim- care or other virtuous behaviors of policyholders;
ing provided by the Solvency II regulations for the official  – products that supplement the public health service, 
reporting. designed to help manage the costs of treatment and 
assistance, as well as the reduction in earnings of cus-
Relations with distributors: distributors play a key role in  tomers in the event of serious illnesses or the loss of 
the promotion and distribution of products and are able  self-sufficiency.
to provide important feedback for the development of 
products and improvement of services. Developing our  Stock granting: free shares assignment.
relationship with the sales networks through dialogue, 
training and involvement in business strategies increases  Stock option: it represents the right of the holder to buy 
their satisfaction and loyalty. shares of the Company at a predefined price (so called 
strike). These options are assigned free of charge.
Responsible business management: it refers to policies, 
guidelines and procedures defining the internal system  Stranded asset: invested assets that may lose their eco-
of rules which enables accountability and transparency. nomic value in advance of the expected duration, due to 
regulatory changes, market forces, technological innova-
Responsible investments and underwriting: in the con- tion, environmental and social problems associated with 
text of sustainable development, the environmental, so- the transition to a low-carbon economy. They are typical-
cial and governance (ESG) aspects of investments and  ly associated with the coal and fossil fuel sector, with an 
underwriting are becoming increasingly important for the  indirect impact on the utilities and transport sectors.
market.
Sustainable Development Goal (SDG): 17 objectives con-
Responsible remuneration and incentives: a remunera- tained in the 2030 Agenda for sustainable development, 
tion system based on internal equity, competitiveness,  launched by the United Nations.
consistency and merit through a direct relationship be-
tween commitment and the recognition of merit makes it  Weighted average cost of debt: it is the annualized cost 
possible to create long-term value. of financial debt considering the nominal amounts at the 
reporting date and the related transactions of currency 
Social products: and interest rate hedging.
– products that respond to the needs of specific catego-
ries of customers or particularly unfortunate events in 