52 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
Responsible investments
NFS
€ 289 bln
 (-2.2%) direct investments of Group insurance companies 
to which the Responsible Investment Guideline is applied
In implementation of the Responsible Investment Guideline  Sustainable and responsible investment funds 
- the document which regulates the various responsible in- Thanks  to  a  methodology  developed  internally  by  a 
vestment activities at Group level - we identify, evaluate  dedicated  team  -  which  integrates  non-financial  and 
and monitor issuing companies in the portfolio which are  traditional financial aspects - we select the best companies 
involved in controversial sectors (for example, non-con- in relation to corporate social responsibility and sustainable 
ventional weapons) or in activities that involve serious or  development policies in order to establish dedicated SRI 
systematic violations of human rights, serious environmen- (Socially Responsible Investment) funds and mandates.
tal damage or corruption. At 31 December 2018, the methodology was applied 
Thanks to the creation of a proprietary ESG methodology  to funds and mandates totalling € 33.2 billion in assets 
- which considers environmental, social and corporate  (-2.1%)*. Of these, 81.4% was subject to the SRI analysis 
governance  aspects  -  we  evaluate  the  degree  of  and reported a compliance rate of more than 90% with 
responsibility and involvement of the issuing companies  the Group’s SRI principles. The remaining 18.6% was 
and promote specific actions with respect to them, ranging  not covered by the SRI analysis (funds of funds, issuers 
from a ban on making new investments to the settlement  located in non-European regions, unlisted issuers).
of current holdings or the retention of same until their 
expiration with no possibility of renewal, or even direct  Stewardship
dialogue to encourage them to act responsibly. As  a  responsible  investor,  we  undertake  to  promote 
A cross-functional committee named Responsible Invest- sustainability in our investees through proxy voting and 
ment Committee retains the task of supporting the deci- engagement activities. To this end, the Group has developed 
sions of the Group Chief Investment Officer in relation to po- a  Voting  Guideline  which  expresses  our  fundamental 
tential exclusions from the investable universe of the Group. values, including with respect to sustainability. In 2018, 
the Group participated in 1,201 Shareholders’ Meetings 
Climate strategy and voted on 15,257 resolutions, 13% against, confirming 
In line with the principles of responsible investment which  the Group’s commitment to support sustainability best 
we have been applying for years, and in execution of  practices.
the Group Policy for the Environment and Climate, we 
have defined our commitment, even through investment 
    Glossary available at the end of this document
activities, to mitigate climate change and transition towards 
energy sources as alternatives to carbon and fossil fuels.
The Generali 2021 strategy, p. 21-22
    Our rules for running business with integrity, p. 24
*  The change considers 2017 comparative data restated following a change in methodology.