58 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
Our reference markets: 
positioning7 and performance
Italy
Generali holds the leadership in the Italian insurance market with an overall share of 
16.2% thanks to the complete range of insurance solutions the Group offers its clients  Gross written premiums
in both the Life and P&C segments. At the distribution level, a multi-channel strategy 
€ 23,781
strongly hinged on agents has been developed. It has a strong position in the direct Life   mln
and P&C channel, through Genertel and Genertellife, the first online insurance launched  (+4.1%)
in Italy. Thanks to its partnership with Banca Generali, the Group is able to offer its 
customers a broad and complete variety of insurance, pension and savings products.  Total operating result
Generali presents itself on the Italian market with three distinct brands marked by a 
€ 1,801
clear strategic positioning - Generali (retail market and SME), Alleanza (households) and   mln
Genertel and Genertellife (alternative channels).  (-2.2%)
During 2018, Generali Italia further developed its simplification programme with the goal 
to improve the customer experience by simplifying the relationship between customers  Life market share 
and agents for the entire process by providing more and more accessible and innovative 
16.8%
services. Furthermore, at the end of 2018 Generali Italia launched Jeniot, a company 
that develops innovative services in the Internet of Things and connected insurance 
area tied to mobility, home, health and work. P&C market share 
14.7%
NFS Within The Human Safety Net, the Group’s global initiative for the society, Generali 
Italian launched Ora di Futuro, an innovative project for educating children and families 
that involves teachers, primary schools and non-profit networks throughout Italy. The  Total ranking 
purpose is to help families sustain responsible growth of their children.
1°
In 2018, the Italian Life insurance market enjoyed a +2.1% growth, recovering over  (2nd Life and 2nd P&C)
last year. The new Life business continues to be mostly oriented toward traditional 
products, which have experienced an increase with respect to the previous year  Our people 
(+8.4%); the support of the unit-linked products is decreasing (-4.5%), also because 
12,926
of the volatility experienced in the financial markets. The P&C market too has recorded 
a +2.4% growth. The motor business was affected by the heavy competition between 
the different operators of the segment and was driven by the other damages business 
(+5.3%) while MTPL continued its slow recovery (+0.7%). Benefitting from the moderate 
macroeconomic recovery, positive growth rates (+3.1%) continued to be seen in the 
non-motor business. The health risk trend was positive (+7.3%), marked by growing 
attention to the world of welfare.  
With reference to the financial markets, the ten-year BTP yield jumped from 2.0% 
in 2017 to 2.8% at year-end 2018. The BTP-Bund spread widened from 153 bps of 
year-end 2017 to 253 bps of year-end 2018, making a return from the peaks hit in 
November following the agreements between the European Commission and the Italian 
government, which sized down the plans to increase spending.
The equity market was affected by the global monetary policies and the intrinsic 
country-Italy risk. The FTSE MIB posted negative performance during the year (-16%).
The growth of Generali’s Life premiums shows the excellent performance of protection 
premiums (+18.3%) and traditional savings products (+8.2%), while unit-linked products  Life premiums 
(-2.4%) were affected by the volatility in financial markets that characterized the second  € 18,332
 mln (+6.0%)
half of the year. 
7  The indicated market shares and positions, based on written premiums, refer to the most recent official data.