Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 65  
financial situation. Despite this tough scenario for the insurance business, the Group 
has implemented best practices in its Argentinian subsidiaries, enabling them to stand 
out in terms of service quality and innovation. The company Caja leads the market 
in Argentina, excluding the business lines in which it does not operate (Workers 
Compensation and Annuities).
Brazil ranks second most important country of the region. Following an extended period 
of economic crisis and political instability, the country has started to show signs of 
improvement, bolstered by infrastructure investments and optimistic forecasts of the 
macroeconomic indicators. Specifically, the insurance sector today is characterised by 
significant expansion potential and a hike in the penetration level. 
The Generali Group also operates in Chile, Ecuador and the USA. Sale of the investment 
in the Panama branch was completed in 2018, as well as the sale of the company in 
Colombia.
In Southern Europe, the Group operates in Portugal, Greece and Turkey. The Turkish 
insurance market and the company in the country were impacted by the macroeconomic 
developments linked to the inflationary trend and depreciation of the local currency.
Life volumes showed a growth of 22.6% compared to 2017, thanks to the positive 
performance of the entire area: Brazil, Argentina and Southern Europe.
New production in terms of PVNBP was up (+19.9%) with a profitability of new business 
(expressed as a percentage of PVNBP) reduced to 0.26%. The value of the new 
production amounted to € 1 million.
P&C premiums, which accounted for 64% of motor products, grew by 17.1% thanks 
largely to Argentina (which represents more than 60% of the Region) mainly due to the 
effect of tariff adjustments as a result of inflation.
The combined ratio of the Region improves to 101.6% (-1.8 pps) compared to the 
previous year when there was a strengthening of reserves in Argentina.
Asia
Generali is one of the key European insurers in the Asian market, and currently operates 
in eight territories. The predominant segment is Life, with premium income mostly 
concentrated in the savings and protection lines and, to a lesser extent, in the unit-
linked lines. Generali offers its products in the entire region adopting a distribution 
strategy that includes agents, brokers and agreements with banking groups. 
Generali operates in China with Generali China Life, one of the five most important Life 
country, in partnership with China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC), which is 
one of the largest Chinese state-owned companies as well as one of the major energy 
groups in the world. Generali has a joint venture agreement with CNPC for the P&C 
products offer as well. Owing to its prominent presence in the Chinese market, Generali 
China Life is the leading contributor to the turnover and operating result of the entire 
region. A 100% owned distribution company was formed in 2018, which focuses on the 
agency channel.
Future Generali Insurance is a Life and P&C joint venture with Future Group, one of 
India’s major retailers. In December 2018, the Generali Group increased its share in 
the Indian joint venture to 49% by investing up to € 120 million in the partnership with 
the goal of intensifying use of Future Group’s vast distribution network in order to offer 
insurance solutions throughout the Indian market with a focus on digital. 
Generali operates as Life insurer also in the emerging markets of the Philippines, Indonesia, 
Thailand and Vietnam, and as P&C insurer in Thailand and Malaysia, in the latter market 
with a 49% investment in MPI Generali. The companies China P&C, India Life, India P&C 
and in Malaysia are not fully consolidated since a non-controlling interest is held.