94 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
A. Executive Summary
In terms of solvency position, the Group and all its 
European insurance subsidiaries comply with Solvency II 
The purpose of the Risk Report is to provide an overview  regulation, which requires capital to be held for all quan-
of the Group’s solvency position and risk profile, as well  tifiable risks. 
as its risk management framework. 
The Group uses its Partial Internal Model (PIM), approved 
To this end a brief introduction on economic and regula- by the Supervisory Authority, to calculate capital require-
tory environment is hereby provided. ments to better reflect its risk profile. The Group PIM au-
thorization was granted for all major Business Units (Italy, 
When addressing the Group’s risk profile, it is important  Germany, France, Austria, Switzerland and the major 
to consider that the insurance sector is mostly vulnera- Czech company) while an extension plan is in progress 
ble to financial markets and the economic environment.  to cover the Spanish companies and the operational risk.
Generali has proven to be resilient to both financial risks 
and credit risks. Nevertheless, financial instability still  The Solvency Ratio, estimated on the basis of preliminary 
represents the key challenge for the insurance sector. data1, amounts to 216% as at 31 December 2018, con-
firming the strong capital position of the Group.
At the same time, in addition to financial, underwriting 
risks and operational risks, emerging trends related to  For the purpose of the Solvency Ratio calculation, the 
rapid growth of digitalization and big data, geopolitical  Group Legal Entities for which authorization has been 
instability, natural catastrophes and demographic chang- granted apply the Group PIM, while other insurance enti-
es represent a considerable challenge for the insurance  ties adopt the standard formula. Other financial regulated 
market.  entities contribute to the Group Solvency Ratio based on 
local sectorial regulatory requirements (e.g. mostly banks 
and pension funds).
Challenges and opportunities of the market context, p. 28 for 
more details on financial markets’ developments
For risks not included in Solvency Capital Requirement 
(SCR) calculation, additional assessment techniques are 
In addition to the financial environment, regulatory de- used. In particular, for liquidity risk, the Group has in place 
velopments represent a major external driver of threats  procedures and limits that ensure the adequate liquidity 
and  opportunities  to  insurance  Legal  Entities.  These  risk management and a sound liquidity position.
include  developments  in  the  area  of  prudential  su-
pervisory  regimes,  such  as  Solvency  II,  International  Generali Group risk management system is based on a 
Capital Standards (ICS), as well as regulations defin- clear risk governance and structured risk management 
ing new principles in terms of distribution (Insurance  processes, defined within a set of risk policies. Within the 
Distribution Directive - IDD), new disclosure requirements  risk management system, the Own Risk and Solvency 
for Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Investment  Assessment (ORSA) represents the main risk reporting 
Products (PRIIPs Regulation), personal data protection  tool, with the purpose of supporting risk strategy update 
(General Data Protection Regulation - GDPR) and an- (Risk Appetite Framework). 
ti-money laundering (IV AML Directive).
Generali Group also relies on a set of tools, such as the 
Challenges and opportunities of the market context, p. 29 for  Recovery Plan, the Liquidity Risk Management Plan and 
more details on the regulatory environment
the Systemic Risk Management Plan, defined following 
1  On the basis of IVASS Provvedimento n. 53, 2016, the SCR and MCR calculations to be disclosed in the Annual Report can rely on a preliminary estimate. More details on the 
Solvency Ratio will be disclosed in the Solvency and Financial Condition Report. 