96 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
B. Group Risk Management 
Entity’s system of governance and internal control and 
System  risk management system are consistent with all the ap-
plicable regulations. To this end, the AMSB, supported 
Risk Governance
by the Key Functions, reassesses the System of Gov-
ernance adequacy periodically and at least once a year. 
Risk governance is a part of the broader Group system  The AMSB approves the Group Legal Entity’s organ-
of governance.  izational set-up, establishes the Key Functions defin-
ing their mandate and reporting lines as well as, where 
The Group system of governance, which includes the  appropriate, any support committee, adopts Group In-
internal control and risk management system, consists  ternal Control and Risk Management Policies, performs 
of the roles and responsibilities of the Administrative,  the duties related to the ORSA, risk concentration and 
Management or Supervisory Body (AMSB), of the Senior  intragroup transactions, approves the ORSA results 
Management and of the Key Functions. It also consists  and based on them defines the risk appetite; 
of the policies, administrative and accounting procedures  – the Senior Management is responsible for the imple-
and organizational structures aimed at identifying, eval- mentation, maintenance and monitoring of the system 
uating, measuring, managing and monitoring the main  of internal controls and risk management, including 
risks.  risks arising from non-compliance with regulations, in 
accordance with the directives of the AMSB; 
Key elements of the internal control and risk management  – Key Functions are established at Group level and within 
system are: the operating entities:
– internal control environment; •  the Risk Management Function supports the AMSB 
– internal control activities; and Senior Management in ensuring the effective-
– awareness; ness of the risk management system and provides 
– monitoring and reporting. advice  and  support  to  the  main  business  deci-
sion-making processes;
To ensure a consistent framework through the Group, the  •  the Compliance Function grants that the organiza-
Parent Company sets Group Directives on the System of  tional and the internal procedures are adequate to 
Governance, complemented by Group Internal Control  manage the risk to incur in administrative or judiciary 
and Risk Management Policies, which have to be applied  fines, economic losses or reputational damages as 
by all Group Legal Entities. a consequence of non-compliance with laws, regu-
lations, provisions, and the risk deriving from unfa-
The Group system of governance is founded on the es- vourable changes in the law or judicial orientation 
tablishment of an AMSB and of three lines of defence: (compliance risk);
– the Operating Functions (“risk owners”), which repre- •  the Actuarial Function coordinates the technical pro-
sent the first line of defence and have ultimate respon- visions calculation and grants the adequacy of un-
sibility for risks relating to their area of responsibility;  derlying methodologies, models and assumptions, 
– Actuarial, Compliance and Risk Management Func- verifies the quality of the related data and expresses 
tions, which represent the second line of defence;  an opinion on the overall Underwriting Policy and on 
– Internal Audit, which represents the third line of de- the adequacy of reinsurance arrangements;
fence. •  the Audit Function verifies business processes and 
the adequacy and effectiveness of controls in place 
Internal  Audit  together  with  Actuarial,  Compliance  also proving support and advice.
and  Risk  Management  Functions  represent  the  “Key 
Functions”. Heads of Key Functions report to the AMSB.
The roles and responsibilities of the AMSB and related  Group Key Functions collaborate according to a pre-de-
committees, Senior Management, Key Functions and the  fined coordination model, in order to share information 
interactions among Key Functions are described within  and create synergies. A strong Parent Company coordi-
the Corporate Governance Report. Key roles within the  nation and direction for Key Functions is granted by the 
risk management system are outlined below:  so called solid reporting lines model established between 
– the AMSB is the ultimate responsible for the System  the head of the Group Key Function and heads of the 
of Governance and must ensure that the Group Legal  respective Functions within the operating entities.