Our  Consolidated Non-Financial  Appendices to the  Consolidated Financial 
We, Generali performance Risk Report Outlook Statement Management Report Statements 97  
Risk Management System 
all risks, on a current and forward-looking basis and is 
implemented in a consistent manner across the Group.
The principles defining the Group risk management sys-
tem are provided in the Risk Management Group Policy3   Generali Group’s risk management process is defined in 
which is the cornerstone of all risk-related policies and  the following phases:
guidelines. The Risk Management Group Policy covers 
1. Risk 2. Risk 3. Risk management  4. Risk
identiﬁcation measurement and control reporting
1. Risk identification  only the impact of each risk taken individually but also 
their combined impact on the Group’s Own Funds.
The purpose of the risk identification is to ensure that all 
material risks to which the Group is exposed are proper- Group PIM methodology and governance are provided 
ly identified. To this end, the Risk Management Function  in the section C. Solvency Position. Insurance and Re-
interacts with the main Business Functions in order to  Insurance Entities not included in the PIM scope calcu-
identify the main risks, assess their importance and en- late the capital requirement based on standard formula, 
sure that adequate measures are taken to mitigate them  while Other Financial Services (e.g. banking or pension 
according to a sound governance process. Within this  funds) calculate the capital requirement based on their 
process also emerging risks4 related to new risks and de- own specific sectoral regimes. 
veloping trends, characterized by uncertain evolution and 
often of systemic nature, are considered. Other risks, for which no SCR is calculated, such as li-
quidity, reputational, strategic, contagion, emerging and 
additional Group specific risks (i.e. risks from intragroup 
2. Risk measurement  transactions, risk concentrations), are evaluated on the 
basis of quantitative and qualitative techniques, models 
Identified risks are then measured through their contri- and additional stress testing or scenario analysis.
bution to the Solvency Capital Requirement (SCR), com-
plemented by other modelling techniques deemed ap-
propriate and proportionate to better reflect the Group  3. Risk management and control 
risk profile. Using the same metric for measuring the 
risks and the capital requirements ensures that each  The risks which the Group is exposed to are managed on 
risk is covered by an adequate amount of capital that  the basis of the Group Risk Appetite Framework (RAF), de-
could absorb the loss incurred if the risk materializes.  fined by the AMSB. The Group RAF defines the level of risk 
For SCR calculation purposes 1 in 200 years events are  the Group is willing to accept in conducting business and 
considered. thus provides the overall framework for embedding risk 
management into business processes. In particular, the 
The SCR is calculated by means of the Group’s PIM5   RAF includes the statement of risk appetite, the risk prefer-
for financial, credit, life and non-life underwriting risks.  ences, the risk metrics, the tolerance and the target levels.
Operational risks are measured by means of standard 
formula, complemented by qualitative risk assessments.  The purpose of the Group RAF is to set the desired level 
The PIM provides an accurate representation of the main  of risk on the basis of the Group strategy. The Group RAF 
risks to which the Group is exposed to, measuring not  statement is complemented by qualitative assertions (risk 
3  The Risk Management Group Policy covers all Solvency II risk categories and, in order to adequately deal with each specific risk category and the underlying business processes, 
is complemented by the following risk policies: Group Investment Governance Policy; P&C Underwriting and Reserving Group Policy; Life Underwriting and Reserving Group 
Policy; Group Operational Risk Management Policy; Liquidity Risk Management Group Policy; other risk-related policies, such as Group Capital Management Policy, Supervisory 
Reporting & Public Disclosure Group Policy, Group Risk Concentrations Management Policy etc.
4  Major details on emerging risk definition are provided in section D. Risk Profile
5  The PIM use for the SCR calculation at Group level has been approved for the insurance entities in Italy, Germany, France, Austria, Switzerland as well as for the biggest Czech 
company, Česká pojišťovna a.s. For the other entities, the standard formula is applied. Other financially regulated entities apply local sectorial requirements.