98 Generali Group Annual Integrated Report and Consolidated Financial Statements 2018
preferences) supporting the decision-making processes  ORSA, stress test and sensitivity analyses are also per-
as well as by risk tolerances providing quantitative bound- formed to assess the resilience of the solvency position 
aries to limit excessive risk-taking, as well as by a target  and risk profile to changed market conditions or specific 
operating range to provide indications on the solvency  risk factors.
level at which the Group aims to operate. Tolerance and 
target levels are referred to capital and liquidity metrics. Generali Group applies a Group-wide process, which 
implies that each Group Legal Entitiy is responsible for 
The Group RAF governance provides a framework for  the preparation of its own ORSA Report and the Parent 
embedding risk management into day-to-day and ex- Company coordinates the Group ORSA reporting pro-
traordinary business operations and control mechanisms  cess.
as well as the escalation and reporting to be applied in 
case of risk tolerance breaches. Should an indicator ap- At Group level, the process is coordinated by the Risk 
proach or breach the defined tolerance levels, escalation  Management Function, supported by other Functions for 
mechanisms are activated. what concerns Own Funds, technical provisions and oth-
er risks. 
4. Risk reporting  The purpose of the ORSA process is to provide the as-
sessment of risks and of the overall solvency needs on 
The  purpose  of  risk  reporting  is  to  keep  Senior  a current and forward-looking basis. The ORSA process 
Management and AMSB aware and informed on the de- ensures an ongoing assessment of the solvency posi-
velopment of the risk profile, the trends of single risks and  tion based on the Strategic Plan and the Group Capital 
the breaches of risk tolerances on an ongoing basis.  Management Plan. 
The ORSA process includes the assessment and report- The Group ORSA Report, documenting main results of 
ing of all risks also in a forward-looking view. The ORSA  this process, is produced on an annual basis. A non-reg-
process includes the assessment of all risks, quantifia- ular ORSA Report can also be produced in case of signif-
ble and not in terms of capital requirements. Within the  icant changes of the risk profile.