Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019 105
4.  training on Unconscious Bias and Inclusive Leadership, to be delivered through the Digital Academy;
5.  WLP (Women Leadership Programme), now in its fourth edition. This training programme is aimed at fe-
male talent in the company. Through their development, it can nurture the internal pipeline for succession 
plans;
6.  mentoring programme for female talent, to be delivered after the training of internal mentors;
7.  programme of Reverse Mentoring, to be organised in 2020 and 2021 with a view to benefiting from the ge-
nerational diversity that exists within the business, by enabling both Juniors and Seniors to develop by com-
paring their mindsets and methods of working in order to find common ground;
8.  Gender Pay Gap Analysis, already started in Germany as a pilot project in partnership with Korn Ferry and to 
be extended to other countries;
9.  health and well-being programmes for more senior employees, delivered mostly at local level and taking 
account of specific conditions in each area. As an example, the two-yearly check-up of office personnel in 
Milan is offered on an annual basis to persons over the age of 55;
10. initiatives to recognise the role of caregivers, with the launch in 2019 of a pilot project entitled “Life-Based 
Learning”. The “Life-based learning” on-line training models highlight work-life synergies and are available 
to all employees: parents, caregivers and managers. Further information and details are available from the 
intranet page, which is even accessible by mobile phone;
11. actions to facilitate the work-life balance, such as flexi-hours and remote working, are available at several 
Group locations. As an example, the smart working project introduced at the Prysmian HQ in 2017 has been 
extended. Smart working can now be used on 3 days every month, with simplification of the requirements 
for access to the scheme. In addition, smart working has been introduced in the Central and Eastern Europe 
region from this year, allowing people to work remotely for up to 2 days per month;
12. launch of the Diversity Academy at the Prysmian site in Cebu, Philippines, where the training organised 
will largely focus on the topic of racial and ethnic diversity;
13. internal and external communication campaigns for the project and success stories based on cases of 
diversity of all kinds (gender, age, culture).
Side by Side certainly seeks to increase the presence of females at all levels within the organisation and in the va-
rious functions by 2021, but it also strives to create a more inclusive working environment. A place where various 
generations can understand each other and work well together, and where all employees, regardless of culture 
and leadership style, are offered equal growth opportunities. Consistent with this, the We value diversity prin-
ciple is now part of the Group’s new Leadership Model, in recognition of the TRUST business value. 
PRYSMIAN GROUP, LINKING THE FUTURE LEADING INNOVATION GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR DNA A PUBLIC COMPANY OUR COMMITMENT