106 Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019
THE DEVELOPMENT OF TALENT
For Prysmian, human capital and the development of talent are strategic assets for the achievement of our pro-
fitability and value creation objectives. For this reason, the Group defined and implemented a People strategy 
during the period 2012-2019 in order to:
  guarantee the hiring of talents with technical skills and managerial styles aligned with the Group’s leader-
ship values and model; 
  draw on and develop the talents of each employee, thereby contributing to future growth and the mainte-
nance of our global leadership position. 
The talent management system is based on four pillars: 
1.  Employer branding and Talent Acquisition;
2.  Performance Management;
3.  Talent Management;
4.  Culture, Training and Development
EMPLOYER BRANDING and TALENT ACQUISITION
Numerous initiatives during 2019 were designed to position the Group as the Employer of choice on a global 
scale in order to attract and retain the best talent on the market. In particular, promotional and communication 
actions were taken using both digital and traditional means.
At the same time, an important new employer branding strategy was defined in order to recognise the individual 
contributions made within the business and recognise the unique contribution of each person in its success. The 
internal job posting project, launched at the end of 2019, is also very important and will be extended globally 
during 2020. This represents an important improvement in our development culture, as well as employee expe-
rience terms.
Additionally, the Group has continued to invest in a solid positioning strategy on the major digital communi-
cation channels, achieving significant goals for which the Group’s recruitment team was recognised as “Best 
Talent Acquisition team, Large enterprise” by LinkedIn.
Building on this, a major investment was made on Instagram during 2019, in order to reach target new gradua-
tes via this channel.
  158 thousand followers    Live-streaming feeds made    3 thousand followers
with applicants to the various 
  Winner Best Employer Talent    Campaigns focused on 
recruitment programmes
Acquisition team Linkedin graduates
  25 thousand likes and thousands 
of comments and visits
In addition to increasing its presence on on-line platforms, the Group has continued to invest in University pre-
sentations and dedicated “corners”, via a view to maximising direct contact with students and enhancing local 
awareness of the Prysmian brand. There has been a 10% improvement in presence compared with 2018.