Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019 109
Prysmian People Performance Potential (P4)
In 2017, with a view to rationalising the assessment of potential and establishing a process for the identifica-
tion of talent and the preparation of succession plans, Prysmian introduce a structured process known as the 
“Prysmian People Performance Potential (P4)”. This process was renewed in 2019 to include General Cable top 
performers, to ensure definition of the proper perimeter and guarantee recognition of the various talents.
In order to guarantee a proper level of awareness about the new models, more than 2,500 managers around the 
world received training between February and the end of March 2019. During 2019, about 16%27 of the Group’s 
white-collar workers (including the front line) were subjected to periodic appraisals of their professional deve-
lopment and potential. 
Talent management process P4
2019 Men Women Total
% of White Collar included in the potential evaluation program 17.1% 14.3% 16.3%
On launch of the new Workday system in 2020, the new content defined in 2019 for performance (P3) and scou-
ting for potential (P4) will be confirmed and supported by a potential simplification of the process. Particular 
attention will be given to the management of feedback downstream from the talent committee. Specifically, 
ad hoc training will be made available. Alongside this, a new system for the assessment of high potential indi-
viduals will become available, supporting both employees and the Group with a targeted development plan.
Together with the Compensation team, we are working to align the reward element with the recognition of talent.
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT 
The development of people is a priority at Prysmian. In this regard, the Prysmian Group Academy has been crea-
ted at Group level to guide and define the pillars of the development strategy.
In order to develop and consolidate the leadership and technical skills of management, the Prysmian 
Group Academy comprises 3 modular schools (Prysmian Business School, Prysmian Professional School and 
Prysmian Digital School) that provide training both to a selected pool and to all employees, based on our 
business requirements.
Prysmian Business School Prysmian Professional School Prysmian Digital School
The School of Management,  The Professional School, directly  The digital school is considered one 
directly connected to systems of  linked with the systems of  of the main projects of the Academy. 
measuring and developing Potential  measurement and performance  In 2019, the Group launched a new 
(P4 programme), is established by  development (P3 programme), is  technological platform to support 
Prysmian in partnership with SDA  organised into function academies  the Digital Academy; the platform 
Bocconi and a network of 10 major  and centres of expertise, and has  comprises a social networking tool 
international Business Schools  trained over 2,000 employees in  called “JAM”, intended to help create 
(ESADE, FUDAN, SMU, STENBEIS,  six years, with the involvement of  a community among the school 
CORVINUS, SSE, FGV, ESSEC, USC,  more than 250 experts and plans to  participants. The community allows 
UFS). The school supported the  involve the same number in 2019.  participants to stay in touch and share 
entire integration process in 2019  R&D Academy, Purchasing and  documents. Always in step with the 
and this will continue in 2020. In  Supply Chain has defined new ad hoc  development of training offerings, 
addition, a new Academy training  programmes to improve the specific  the Group has developed several 
hub was opened in 2019 to focus on  expertise available in this area.  digital initiatives, with the creation 
diversity and inclusion, with a view to  Further emphasis has also been placed  of ad-hoc e-learning modules and 
maximising the value contributed by  on compliance and safety, which are a  partnering with AltaFormazione in 
diversity within the organisation.  priority for the Group.  order to satisfy training needs.
27  The data reported includes all permanent and fixed-term WC employees, with the exclusion of OAPIL (Oman Aluminium Processing Industries LLC), Associated Cables 
Pvt. Ltd., General Cable Condel, Cabos de Energia e Telecomunicaçoes SA, SICABLE - Société Ivoirienne de câbles S.A., Nantong Haixun Draka Elevator Products Co. Ltd. 
and Nantong Zhongyao Draka Elevator Products Co. Ltd.
PRYSMIAN GROUP, LINKING THE FUTURE LEADING INNOVATION GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR DNA A PUBLIC COMPANY OUR COMMITMENT