112 Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019
GROUP WELFARE SYSTEM
With regard to the Prysmian Group, the monetary-equity offer is amplified by additional benefits such as 
supplementary welfare, additional medical care, personal accident policies, a company car for staff who are 
entitled to one, and company canteen or restaurant vouchers. These benefits are adapted to local conditions, 
having regard for market characteristics and relevant regulations. This focus on individuals is confirmed by 
the Prysmian Group’s commitment to investing in the development of employee-company relations, via nu-
merous initiatives designed to encourage involvement. The Group also signs agreements with external par-
tners for the supply of products and services on attractive terms to employees, such as discounts on theatre 
tickets, gym subscriptions, magazines and products purchased in shops. These benefits are equally valid for 
full-time and part-time employees.
Once again, Prysmian Group has implemented national initiatives (Italy/HQ) that make it possible to:
  obtain a free flu jab from local hospitals;
  donate blood in collaboration with Avis;
  obtain a free check-up in collaboration with Niguarda Hospital, for prevention purposes and as part of the 
attention dedicated to the health of employees in the Milan Bicocca area;
  participate in the assignment of 102 study grants each worth 450€ for Upper School pupils and 33 study 
grants each worth 1,600€ for the University education of the children of employees.
Following the merger of the Prysmian Group with the General Cable Group, the existing welfare systems pre-
sent in the countries subject to integration of organisational structures are and will be the subject of thorough 
analysis with a view to harmonising them.
DIALOGUE WITH SOCIAL PARTNERS AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 
The Group continues to invest energy and resources in the maintenance of constructive social dialogue and con-
tinuous improvement, in the firm belief that the contribution made by the social parties represents both a sti-
mulus and essential support for the HR policies adopted by the Group.
While recognising that workers’ representatives and trade union organisations operate independently, in com-
pliance with local legislation and practices, the Group guarantees the involvement and consultation of unions 
at all levels, from plant to international (European Works Council), in the main processes followed for the col-
lective management of personnel. 
In many of the countries where the Group operates, 2019 was again marked by the signature of agreements with 
workers’ representatives and trade unions: almost all corporate processes or projects with an impact on person-
nel requiring union consultation were completed with the formalisation of an agreement. 
These union agreements generally covered the routine renewal of the economic and regulatory terms of cur-
rent payroll contracts, as well as new working hours and shift work where required by specific market conditions. 
About 70% of Group employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements in 2019. We emphasise that, 
with reference to organisational changes and the relative minimum notice period, each country of the Group 
shall comply with the relevant local regulations in this context.
In addition, at a European level, Prysmian Group has maintained constant contact with the European Works 
Council (EWC). The second half of 2018 was marked by intense negotiations with the EWC about forming the new 
council after the General Cable acquisition, with initial agreement reached at the end of that year. Subsequently, 
on 27 March 2019, formation of the new EWC was formalised on signature of the final agreement at the Milan HQ 
of the Prysmian Group.