Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019 113
The EWC now comprises 29 trade union representatives from all European countries where Prysmian is present 
and meets at least twice a year, with the option for further meetings if extraordinary operations are required.
The current EWC has its own executive body (known as the Executive Committee) comprising seven members, 
elected by the 29 members of the general committee, from the following countries: Italy (chair), France (secre-
tary), Netherlands (deputy chair), Germany, the United Kingdom, Spain and Sweden.
In October 2018, the European organisations representing workers and local trade union organisations were 
informed of the intention to close the European HQ offices of the General Cable Group in Barcelona. On 16 No-
vember 2018, an agreement was reached with the trade unions of the site, providing incentives for people to 
leave the company; in order to reduce the social impact, some of the dismissed workers were given the option to 
relocate to other sites in the province.
Together with that operation involving about 75 employees, the same Group rationalisation included the acti-
vation of a social plan in Montereau-France for around 70 persons. This last process, which sought to rationalise 
resources by drawing on possible synergies, was completed in December 2018 with a union agreement that envi-
saged various mitigation measures (leaving incentives, outplacements, relocation to other French plants etc.). 
These were implemented during the first half of 2019. 
Collective conflict within the Group at global level was insignificant in 2019, due to pursuit of the above industrial 
relations policy designed to prevent - through constant and constructive dialogue accompanied, usually, by pro-
active union consultation - any source of controversy that could potentially generate conflict at different levels. 
Against this background, for the sake of completeness, there was some limited conflict at a number of French 
plants during the first quarter of 2019. This arose at the time of the annual wage negotiations (NAO) in France, 
which were complicated by the union expectations created by the French government announcement that bo-
nuses granted by companies would be tax free (the Macron Bonus). The union discussions, although not without 
difficulties, resulted in an agreement to close the dispute, setting aside the strife and re-establishing a sense of 
responsibility among all those involved. 
On 2 October 2019, the Company informed the local (Comité de Empresa) and European (EWC) unions about 
the need to reorganise its industrial activities in Spain, with closure of the plants in Manlleu (334 workers ) and 
Montcada i Reixac (153 workers) in Catalonia.
The reorganisation was needed for organisational and production reasons, in order to align productive capacity 
with market demand and maintain the competitiveness of the business in Spain. In particular, the business plan 
seeks to concentrate national production of power cables at the Group’s Catalan plants in Santa Perpètua de Mo-
goda and Vilanova i la Geltrú, as well as at the General Cable centre of excellence for low voltage copper cables 
in Abrera.
Following the announcement, there were episodic strikes and protests against the Company’s decision during 
the period of consultations and negotiations carried out on the basis and with the timing envisaged by Spanish 
regulations.
In this regard, management had announced from the start the intention to present proposals designed to miti-
gate the impact on the workforce at the affected locations.
PRYSMIAN GROUP, LINKING THE FUTURE LEADING INNOVATION GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR DNA A PUBLIC COMPANY OUR COMMITMENT