114 Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019
On 25 November 2019, the period of negotiations was completed with an important agreement that obtained 
unanimous approval from the workers’ representatives. The agreement includes the following points:
the gradual stoppage of production at the plants concerned;
  the transfer of up to 138 workers to other Prysmian Group plants in Spain and a further 59 to plants abroad, 
thereby reducing the number of dismissals;
  an early retirement plan for the older personnel affected;
  a termination indemnity package for workers not entitled to early retirements, with conditions far superior 
to the legal requirements;
  establishment of a working party to analyse options for the reindustrialisation of the locations concerned.
On 22 November 2019, a draft agreement presented to the workers’ meetings at the two plants received 
98% approval.
The agreement reached will help to mitigate, as far as possible, the effects of the industrial re-footprint project 
on employees and the local communities, allowing the Company to align production capacity with demand.
The above type of agreement reached in Spain was made possible, in part, by the highly convincing approach 
adopted by the Company, which shows that the manner in which business restructurings are carried out, when 
necessary, makes all the difference for the persons involved.
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
The Prysmian Group has always been committed to ensuring that the of the integrity, health and welfare of 
workers are safeguarded in their workplaces. The Group has an HSE (Health, Safety, Environment) policy for Pry-
smian sites and an HSE policy for the former General Cable sites that guarantee our commitment to comply with 
the good management practices that ensure a safe workplace. 
To ensure a systematic and concrete approach to the safety issue, the Group adopts the OHSAS 18001 health and 
safety management system at a number of locations, although all productive entities make reference to it.30  
Aware that rules, training, information and technical aspects play a key role in the determination and management 
of risks and the prevention of injuries, the Group directs its activities and regulates key work phases with Procedu-
res, Operating Instructions and Guidelines. These documents contain rules, precautions and technical solutions to 
be observed, with checks on effective implementation. The risk is determined for each work phase, together with 
measures to maintain or reduce it. The precautions needed to deal with the residual risk are also identified.
In order to distribute this approach extensively, Prysmian provides regular general and specific training cour-
ses to operators on the safe management of materials, equipment, plant and/or machinery during the con-
struction, operation and maintenance phases. A spotlight is placed on the personal protective equipment al-
located to each worker in order to mitigate the residual risks associated with the work performed. Additionally, 
although not required by local regulations, training programmes have been devised on such topics as safety at 
work, first aid, fire prevention regulations, the consequence of alcohol and drug abuse. Guidelines govern the 
use of mobile phones in the workplace, working alone, the distribution, use and maintenance of defibrillators, 
first-aid kits and other standard practices that maintain a consistent level of safety throughout the Group.
Partly to ensure compliance with current regulations, the HR functions at country level prepare training plans 
for their personnel and determine specific training paths for the various categories of worker, depending on 
their roles, duties, levels of responsibility and working environment. 
30 See paragraph “Environmental protection” for details of the OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 certified sites.