Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019 117
In addition, with reference to the fleet (comprising three vessels: the Giulio Verne, the Ulisse and the Cable En-
terprise), the related HSE data was managed in 2019 with support from an external ship management company. 
The relevant maritime regulations for ships are the ISM code for safety and the ISPS code for security.
The following injury and frequency statistics relate solely to the Group’s ships. Three on-board injuries resulted 
in a total of 90 days lost.
Prysmian Group (2019) - Fleet
Group37 
Severity rate (IG) 0.57
Frequency rate (IF) 17.12
COMMITMENT TO THE COMMUNITY  
One of the drivers of the sustainability strategy consistently adopted by the Prysmian Group over the years is 
to “Contribute to the development of people and communities”, creating value for all parties concerned and 
contributing to the sustainable development of the territories. 
In the context of the Group’s Corporate Citizenship and Philanthropy Policy the Company has joined the Busi-
ness Volunteer project, activating a series of social initiatives that are supported the concrete contribution of 
employees who “donate working hours”. As a result of these initiatives, Prysmian Group has donated about 7,000 
hours of volunteer work.
Some of the initiatives carried out together with Sodalitas are described below:
  Starting in May 2019, the Company organised a number of Business Volunteer activities in collaboration with 
“Rise Against Hunger”, an international organisation that seeks to eliminate hunger from the world by 2030. 
Supported by volunteers and charities on the ground throughout the world, RAH distributes ready meals di-
rectly to those most in need. Various Prysmian teams were involved: from top management to the employe-
es of the HR function and the business divisions. Our employees participated with enthusiasm, dedicating 
their time to the packaging of a full 39,600 food rations that were then sent to villages in Mozambique and 
Zimbabwe by the appointed charities. Thanks to the contribution made by Prysmian employees, the packa-
ged food will provide nourishment to around one hundred children and increase their school attendance 
throughout an entire scholastic year.
  Prysmian also organised a Business Volunteer day in June 2019, donating the working hours of employees to 
the distribution of meals at Fondazione Fratelli di San Francesco in Milan. This Foundation is active in many 
areas, from medical surgeries to dormitories throughout the Milan area where homeless persons can go. The 
Foundation has taken care of the elderly for many years and offers support to all those in a fragile state, eco-
nomically or otherwise, seeking to devise a path for each of them towards integration and social autonomy, 
with a home and work. The distribution of meals is a major service provided by the Foundation: the canteen 
is open for lunch and dinner every day throughout the year, with seating for 156 and a daily average of about 
1,200 guests. 
  In July 2019, a number of Prysmian employees, working in collaboration with Legambiente, donated a wor-
king day to the local community by cleaning a green space in the vicinity of the Milan HQ (Quartiere Bicocca): 
84 kg of cuttings, 30 kg of glass, 25 kg of miscellaneous waste, 15 kg of building rubble, over 10 kg of bulky 
waste and a battery weighing 12 kg . In total, 176 kg of waste was removed from the road and the cycle path.
37 The indices cover to both external (agency) workers on the ships and the Prysmian employees aboard.
PRYSMIAN GROUP, LINKING THE FUTURE LEADING INNOVATION GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR DNA A PUBLIC COMPANY OUR COMMITMENT