Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019 123
During 2019, the HSE function continued with the coordination of the operational phase of the two projects, 
“Relamping with LED” and “Smart Metering”, respectively related to the replacement of conventional lighting 
fixtures with LED lamps and the introduction of systems to measure consumption at the production units; this, 
in line with a consistent approach at Group level, which has led to the following concrete results and future de-
velopments: 
  Activation of a unified Cloud platform at the 5 Italian locations with consumption measurement systems, in 
order to ensure the consistent management of energy consumption and the aggregation of data at country 
level, while also enabling the individual operating units to manage their own data and prepare and distribute 
customised reports. 
  In order to extend and accelerate the installation of consumption measurement systems, as an essential 
tool in the management and optimisation of energy consumption and to guarantee compliance with legi-
slative requirements, the HSE function has decided that the installation of these systems will be mandatory 
from 2020, prior to activation of the Energy Efficiency initiatives already identified. 
  Completion of the supply, installation and testing of LED lighting in two Italian operating units, adding to 
the five already completed in Italy in the period 2017-2018.
  Completion of the supply, installation and testing of LED lighting in two British operating units. 
  Start of work on the supply, installation and testing of LED lighting in two additional British operating units 
and two in Asia, with project completion expected by mid-2020.
  Collaboration with the purchasing function on preparation of the technical specifications and commercial 
requirements to be adopted at Group level for the design and installation of new lighting systems. 
Using the Smart Metering system installed in the Italian production units, Prysmian will analyse power consu-
mption and performance in relation to production, highlighting both the savings obtained from the adjustmen-
ts already made, e.g. in lighting systems, and the areas of improvement where future actions can be planned 
and implemented to improve efficiency.
A number of pilot projects in the energy field were also launched in 2019. These are coordinated by the HSE fun-
ction, in collaboration with other central functions, in order to quantify the energy savings obtainable by using 
specific technical solutions, assess their effectiveness and extend their implementation to other Group plants. 
For this purpose, the HSE function has carried out various site visits to gather and analyse specific documenta-
tion and the available energy data.
The pilot projects involve four operating units in three countries and focus on the following main areas:
  Efficiency of systems for the production and distribution of compressed air.
  Efficiency of heating systems.
  Efficiency of cooling systems.
  Efficiency of engines.
  Assessment of systems for the self-generation of electricity. 
PRYSMIAN GROUP, LINKING THE FUTURE LEADING INNOVATION GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR DNA A PUBLIC COMPANY OUR COMMITMENT