126 Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019
The data and information reported by the sample of suppliers selected were used by Prysmian to quantify more 
precisely its Scope 3 emissions (relating to 2019), as well as to start planning initiatives in the coming years to 
monitor and reduce the impact on climate change associated with the supply chain.
CARBON FOOTPRINT OF PRODUCTS  
The commitment of Prysmian to preventing and reducing the environmental impact associated with Group acti-
vities and products is evidenced, in particular, by the responsible management of the various phases in the life 
cycle of each product.
This ranges from the efficient use of energy resources and raw materials, to the optimisation of logistics flows 
and the enhancement of production process efficiency, as well as to the reduction of emissions and the respon-
sible management of waste that, taken together, comprise the carbon footprint of the product.
During 2019, with a view to satisfying the technical requirements of several important customers, Prysmian 
Group began a process for the certification of various low and medium voltage products. 
To this end, Product Carbon Footprint studies were carried out in accordance with standard ISO 14067:2018 and 
applying the principles of the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology. These studies covered more than 30 
cables, drawn from about twenty families, made in Italy, Spain, Portugal, Romania, Argentina, Brazil, Chile and 
Colombia, obtaining ISO 14067:2018 certification of conformity.
Drawing on the technical knowledge and experience of the various business functions, Prysmian teamwork 
made it possible to respond to increasingly stringent market requirements on environmental matters, establi-
shing the groundwork for a systematic approach at Group level to the quantification of the carbon footprint of 
products. 
EPD (Environmental Product Declaration) for Delft products
Stedin, a Dutch utility, invited Prysmian Netherlands, as one of its main suppliers of power cables, 
to explore the use and the strengths of an LCA tool (ISO 14040 / ISO14044, ISO 14025 and EN15804) 
developed by EcoChain to carry out the following analyses on a complete set of products:
1.  EPD (Environmental Product Declaration);
2.  ECI (Environmental Cost Indicator, a monetary value aggregating all the environmental impacts 
analysed);
3.  CO eq footprint (“cradle to gate”).
2
This tool was used to analyse the entire product range of the Delft plant: almost one hundred diffe-
rent cables for electricity transmission and distribution grids.
The results will be discussed with the customer and the possibility of sourcing metals with a reduced 
environmental impact is already being considered. Preparations are also being made to carry out 
this analysis more frequently and more simply, for other plants and products in the Netherlands.
Such analyses, covering a vast range of products, will provide input for new innovation programmes 
addressing sustainable products and for the selection of suppliers of materials with a reduced envi-
ronmental impact.