140 Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019
SALES & OPERATIONS PLAN
The Supply Chain function manages short and medium-term production allocations and planning through 
the Sales & Operations Planning (S&OP) process, which links the demand cycle (sales) with the supply cycle 
(manufacturing and procurement). 
The planning activity cannot be separated from the maintenance of high customer satisfaction and from the 
rapid rotation of inventories to support cash generation.
“Enhanced supply chain” means providing excellent service to our customers while maintaining the conno-
tations of flexibility, agility and adaptation to market changes, guiding the supply and production network 
through an increasingly optimised production allocation able to leverage the industrial Footprint of the 
Group.
The process of implementing the global planning of Sales & Operations at all former General Cable plants 
and distribution centres continued during 2019. This has improved the availability of products for the Group’s 
various businesses, fuelling more specific production allocations at the level of individual business applica-
tions, with intercompany flows supporting the growth and optimisation of production costs.
In the field of optical fibre cables, there was a shortage of supply during the first half of 2019, as in the 2 prior 
years; by contrast, there was a significant drop in sales and production during the second semester. Inter-
company flows in the optical fibre telecom cables businesses remained stable at 30% globally and 50% at 
European level. The Supply Chain function guided the allocation of supplies, maximising the availability of 
optical fibre for the Group during the first semester and optimising customer services during the second half 
of the year.
Intercompany flows in the energy business were also differentiated in 2019. The regional organisation that 
groups business units enabled the supply chain to reach and maintain intercompany flows at around the 20% 
level.
OPTIMISATION OF INVENTORIES  
During the first half of 2019, the Supply Chain consolidated the inventory reduction efforts made within the 
former General Cable perimeter, reaching the same level of stock optimisation achieved within the former Pry-
smian perimeter. In particular, inventory synergies worth Euro 100m were released, principally from the North 
America and Latin America perimeter.
The second part of 2019 was marked by the greater variability of demand and an increase in the volatility of the 
business. Lower sales by the Optical Telecom business and the existence of several major contracts in the Projects, 
SURF (Subsea Umbilicals, Risers & Flowlines) and Oil & Gas area resulted in a temporary increase in inventories; as a 
result, Supply Chain effort was focused on maintaining a proper balance between stock rotation and sales.
AVG. MONTLHY NET INVENTORY (m€)
1,684 1,684
AVG. 2018 AVG. 2019