146 Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019
ANALYSIS AND MANAGEMENT OF SUPPLIERS
With regard to the management of the supplier base, Prysmian qualifies its suppliers through a formal process 
based on technical, economic and financial analysis; it examines information and data on, for example, the risk 
of dependence on the supplier or the technical and technological capacity and skills of the suppliers.  
In order to monitor the sustainability of the supply chain and reduce possible negative impact, the Group also 
analyses, on a centralised and integrated basis, all risks and opportunities associated with the supply chain, fo-
cusing on the risks deemed most critical by the Group. 
During 2019, the Prysmian Group finalised an internal Supply Chain Strategy document that governs the entire 
supply chain of the materials needed. The process involved envisages:
  A risk analysis by supplier for a large percentage of expenditure (the Group covered 63% of total expenditure 
in 2019) using the Desk Analysis & Risk Analysis tool. The Desk Analysis carried out in 201946 with regard to the 
Group’s strategic suppliers of base metals and raw materials covered three areas in particular: management 
systems governing ethical sustainability and integrity, the environment, and human rights and workers’ ri-
ghts.
  Identification of potentially high-risk suppliers with regard to sustainability factors, weighted using the 
following matrix: Importance (Expenditure and Business Impact) and Availability (Single Source and Geo-
graphical Location)
  Selection of suppliers identified by the risk analysis as “Potentially high risk” for Sustainability Audits (carried 
out by an external provider)
  Analysis of the audit results and, if negative, activation of improvement actions.
In this regard, 8 supplier audits were carried out during 2019 and, from 2017 to date, 15 sustainability audits have 
been carried out. Following the audits, the Group works with the suppliers to determine the action plan needed, 
if applicable, in order to implement remedial actions.
Suppliers with current or potential impact in  Prysmian Group - 2019 Prysmian Group w/o
relation to environmental criteria, human rights,  General Cable - 2018
working conditions and the company No. suppliers % of spending No. suppliers % of spending
Evaluated suppliers 149 63% 86  55%
Suppliers identiﬁ ed to have a current or potential 
70 13% 6  0.60%
negative impact
2  0% high risk - 
Suppliers identiﬁ ed to have a current or potential  0 high risk - 2 
Improvement  0.50% veriﬁ cation 
negative impact, for which an improvement plan  0.1% veriﬁ cation test 
plan in  test outcome 
has been implemented outcome negative
progress  negative
Suppliers identiﬁ ed to have a current or potential 
negative impact, whose supply relationship has  0 0% 0  0%
been suspended as a result of the assessment
In order to guarantee the quality of the materials purchased, the Group is committed to using only those raw 
materials approved by the responsible technical functions following laboratory tests and extended processing 
trials conducted both in-house and by qualified suppliers. This process seeks to check quality, environmental 
and social aspects. The qualification process starts by sending a questionnaire that the supplier is required to 
complete in full, addressing every aspect, including ESG issues. 
If further work is needed or if the answers to the questionnaire are deemed not sufficiently complete, there is an 
audit for materials classified as critical.
46 For more details on the assessment process begun in 2016, refer to the consolidated disclosure of non-financial information of the Prysmian Group in 2017.