148 Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019
The main industrial
investments
The Prysmian Group’s manufacturing operations are carried out at 10647 plants in more than 50 countries. This 
enables the business to react in good time to the various requests received from world markets. Due to the ge-
ographical distribution and capabilities of the various plants acquired, the General Cable integration process 
that began last year enabled the Prysmian Group to continue during 2019 the implementation of its industrial 
strategy based on the following factors: (i) the development of products of higher added value and technologi-
cal content in a limited number of plants destined to become centres of excellence with high technology skills. 
Economies of scale will be possible in these sites, resulting in improved production efficiency and reduced inve-
sted capital; (ii) a continuous search for higher production efficiency in the commodity sector, maintaining an 
extensive geographical presence to minimise distribution costs. 
Gross capital investment amounted to about Euro 284 million in 2019, which was in line with the prior year (Euro 
285 million). In particular, major work continued during the year on the construction of a new, advanced cable-
laying vessel, as well as the Telecom investment needed (fibre and optical/data cables) to consolidate the lea-
ding role played by Prysmian in this high valued-added sector
Capacity / Product mix 
Investment to increase production capacity and take account of changes in mix accounted for 51% of the total.
Energy Projects. The most significant investment was the continuation of work, commenced in the prior year, 
on a new state-of-the-art cable-laying ship, calling for a total investment in excess of Euro 170 million. This stra-
tegic asset will consolidate Prysmian’s “turnkey” approach that allows for the provision of EPCI (Engineering, 
Procurement, Construction & Installation) with “end-to-end” solutions that include engineering, manufactu-
ring, installation, monitoring and troubleshooting of submarine cable systems for power transmission. The in-
vestment in the new ship is specifically designed to support the Group’s long-term growth prospects in the sub-
marine cable systems market, strengthening its capacity for the installation and execution of projects centring 
on the interconnection and wiring of offshore wind farms.
The new cable-laying ship is designed to be the highest performing vessel on the market and will provide greater 
capacity and versatility in the implementation of projects due to advanced features such as: installation capaci-
ty in waters deeper than 2,000 metres, higher cable load capacity thanks to large rotating drums, ability to un-
dertake complex installation operations supporting diverse equipment for cable burial, including “submarine 
ploughs” and cutting-edge systems for positioning and seaworthiness. The new cable-laying vessel is scheduled 
to be in operation in 2021.
The current Prysmian fleet, comprising three cable ships, the Giulio Verne, Cable Enterprise and Ulisse, combi-
ned with a wide range of high technology equipment for cable installation and burial, such as the Hydroplow, 
PLB Sea Otter and Mole machines, and HD3 submarine ploughing technology, makes it already one of the most 
technologically advanced in the world. This new strategic asset will strengthen the Group’s technological and 
market leadership in the cable and submarine systems industry, allowing it to further internalise installation 
operations and to ensure greater precision in the delivery and execution of projects.
47 The Group operates from 111 plants, including JVs and plants over which Prysmian does not have direct control.