Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019 149
Investment at the plants of the Energy Projects business included support for a number of contracts obtained 
by the Group, such as the supply of interarray cables for the Borssele III and IV wind farms about 25 km off the 
coast, close to the southern border of the Netherlands Exclusive Economic Zone; in addition, contracts have 
been obtained recently to supply cables for the Pentland project and, above all, for the Viking Link, which is the 
first submarine interconnection between the United Kingdom and Denmark. This contract, worth close to Euro 
700 million involves the turnkey design, production and installation of the longest power interconnection in the 
world, with 1,250 km of submarine cables and all 135 km of terrestrial cables in the United Kingdom, correspon-
ding to 4 of the 5 lots put out to tender.
Energy Products. Investment in this business segment addressed a number of niche markets in order to meet 
growing demand in certain value-added sectors. Solar cable production capacity has been increased in Neustadt, 
Germany, in order to cope with the increasing demand for electricity from renewable sources; investment at the 
former General Cable plant in Montereau, France, supports the shipbuilding business in northern France. While 
addressing investment to increase production capacity, it is necessary to discuss the projects launched in North 
America to serve a market that remains particularly buoyant, with good prospects for the coming year: in parti-
cular, investment in Sedalia, Missouri, focuses on aluminium cables for special applications, while in Taunton, 
Massachusetts, work has begun in order to expand the production of special cables for industrial applications.
This will exploit the potential of the new compound plant that will commence full production next year, fol-
lowing the transfer of activities from the neighbouring North Dighton plant, also located in Massachusetts (as 
described the chapter on efficiencies). As in the past, the Prysmian Group also consolidates its investments in 
Oman Cables Industry, after acquiring an absolute majority of the capital in 2016.
These investments principally focus on low and medium voltage cables, which are used by local utilities as well 
as by the major EPC (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) companies active in the Arabian Peninsula.
Telecom. In the telecom business area, the Group has completed work to increase the production capacity of 
ribbon cables at the Lexington plant (South Carolina), partly following an important supply agreement signed 
with the American Verizon Communications to support expansion of the telco’s optical network. This will fa-
cilitate the development of 5G services and, at the same time, increase the 4G LTE capacity of the broadband 
network.
Lexington confirms its role as a centre of excellence in the US for the production of optical telecom cables, with 
another series of investments in the production of cables using a new cutting-edge technology called FlexRib-
bon. This compacts the maximum number of fibres inside the cable, using extremely flexible fibre ribbons that 
can be compacted to achieve very high fibre density, or left flat for splicing, thus simplifying installation in con-
duits that are smaller with respect to the traditional design for flat ribbon. 
Significant growth in the telecom business in North America is further confirmed by investment at the plant in 
Lawrenceburg, Kentucky, where the increased production of CAT6 data cables will support the transmission of 
data at every higher rates.
In Europe too, at the Douvrin and Battipaglia plants, investment seeks to increase the production of single-mo-
de fibre with a view to aligning the in-house production of optical fibre with that of optical cables, for which 
the Slatina plant remains the European centre of excellence with the greatest concentration of investment to 
strengthen production capacity in this area; notably, the Romanian plant obtained special recognition for its 
outstanding sustainability performance in 2019 from JAC (Joint Audit Cooperation), an international association 
comprising the main telco operators that assesses and promotes the implementation of best CSR practices at 
the plants of businesses operating in the sector. In this way, JAC has confirmed the commitment made by the 
Prysmian Group to promote activities and projects that seek to create value for all stakeholders including, in 
particular, the communities and territories in which we work.
PRYSMIAN GROUP, LINKING THE FUTURE LEADING INNOVATION GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR DNA A PUBLIC COMPANY OUR COMMITMENT