150 Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019
Efficiency and Industrial footprint 
About 21% of total investment was allocated to achieving efficiency improvements and reductions in fixed and 
variable costs (mainly product design and material usage). The Group is continuing significant cost optimisation 
work throughout the entire production chain of the telecom business segment: in particular, the European op-
tical fibre plants in Battipaglia (Italy) and Douvrin (France) have invested further in efficiency to reduce signifi-
cantly the cost of fibre manufacturing, with particular emphasis on increasing the size of preforms, the lengths 
of production lots and the speed of spinning.
Design optimisation opportunities have also be identified in the optical cables sector at the Calais, Santander 
and Slatina plants in Europe, drawing on joint experience with the former General Cable perimeter, which produ-
ces this type of cable at the Montereau plant in France.
As for the energy business, the new centre of excellence for South America has been inaugurated in Brazil, as 
part of the company’s production system in Sorocaba (São Paulo). This centre has absorbed the entire organi-
sation of the unit located in Santo André (São Paulo) and, clearly enough, is one of the most modern Prysmian 
Group plant and office complexes in the world.
The former General Cable plant in Pocos de Caldas, in the state of Minas Gerais, has played an important role in 
this major reorganisation of production, making it possible to maximise the synergies deriving from the conso-
lidation process.
Lastly, work is well advanced on the transfer of production from the compound plant in North Dighton, USA, to 
the nearby new construction in Taunton (both in Massachusetts). This will create a new hub for the production 
of compounds and cables for the industrial cables business throughout North America.
Base-load. Capital investment to maintain capacity amounted to about 14% of the total, in line with prior years 
(check). A significant part of this amount is related to the start of work to remove all asbestos present at every 
Group plant around the world.
IT, R&D. Around 14% of investment has been dedicated to the constant development of IT systems and to R&D. 
A significant part of investment has been allocated to the development of Group information systems and Di-
gital Transformation initiatives. In 2019, activities continued for the completion of the “SAP Consolidation (1C)” 
programme, based on the innovative SAP HANA technological infrastructure and aimed at the harmonisation of 
back-office processes, with the geographical extension of the Group platform in ASEAN, Spain and Portugal. La-
stly, transfer to the new SAP S4/HANA ERP by a number of US companies is due for completion in February 2020. 
The new SAP BW/4 HANA Business Intelligence system was also implemented during 2019; both new platforms 
operate in a private cloud environment.
In the Operations area, the pilot project for “FastTrack” - Prysmian’s first Global Manufacturing Execution System 
- was completed successfully in Calais and is now being implemented in Romania, at the Group’s largest telecom 
plant which is a global leader in terms of production volume and scale. Considerable improvements in all areas 
have been made to this system.
The entire platform has been optimised, with great benefits in terms of the speed and reactivity of the system. 
SAP integration is now widespread, covering an increased number of flows after adoption of the most recent 
communications protocols. The real-time collection of large quantities of data from control devices installed on 
machines is now possible, with an interface that has been completely redesigned to improve general usability 
and create a system that can be utilised easily and intuitively by end users. 
Work to upgrade the Group’s wide area network (WAN) was also completed during the year. This has expanded ca-
pacity considerably and improved the performance of the communications infrastructure linking the various sites.