154 Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019
Methodology
This document represents the Consolidated Disclosure of Non-Financial Information (hereinafter also the 
“DNF”, “Statement” or “Sustainability Report”) prepared pursuant to Articles 3 and 4 of Legislative Decree no. 
254/16 (hereinafter also the “Decree”) as amended, by Prysmian S.p.A. and companies consolidated line-by-line 
(hereinafter also “Prysmian” or the “Prysmian Group” or the “Group”) and its objective is to ensure the under-
standing of the organisational model, the activities, the main risks and performance indicators of the Group 
with regard to environmental, social, employee matters, respect for human rights and anti-corruption and bri-
bery matters that are relevant taking into account the activities and characteristics of the company during the 
2019 financial year (from 1 January to 31 December).
The DNF covers - to the extent necessary to ensure the understanding of the business activity, its performance, 
its results and the impact produced by it - environmental, social, employee matters, respect for human rights 
and anti-corruption and bribery matters that are significant considering the Group’s activities and characteri-
stics, as illustrated in the materiality matrix contained in the chapter on “Stakeholder engagement and ma-
teriality analysis” and, specifically, in the tables presented in the sections on “Description of material issues”, 
“Correlation table Decree 254/2016 GRI aspects” and “Analysis of the topic boundary of material aspects for the 
Prysmian Group”.
The data and information provided refer to all companies belonging to the Prysmian Group as at 31 December 
2019, consolidated on a line-by-line basis. The perimeter of the data will be clearly indicated in the text and 
tables and in the section “Notes on the data and information”.
Considering changes in the reporting perimeter, the Quito plant in Ecuador was closed during the year.
All initiatives launched before June 2018 refer always to the Prysmian Group before the acquisition of General Cable.
With reference to the 2018 data and information included in the document for full disclosure purposes, the fol-
lowing terminology will be used:
  Prysmian Group (or “Group” or “Prysmian”) – with reference to the entire post-acquisition Prysmian Group 
perimeter, as at 31/12/2018;
  Prysmian Group w/o General Cable – with reference to the Prysmian Group perimeter before the acquisition 
of General Cable (thus excluding the General Cable legal entities);
   former General Cable - with reference only to the General Cable perimeter from June to December 2018.
The data and information for 2019 relates to the Prysmian Group post acquisition, unless expressly stated 
otherwise.
This DNF has been prepared in accordance with the “GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards” published in 2016 by the 
“GRI - Global Reporting Initiative”, adopting the “in accordance - Core” option. The document was prepared taking 
into account the sustainability issues considered significant for the Group and for the Group’s stakeholders, submit-
ted as part of the materiality matrix (see paragraph “Stakeholder engagement and materiality analysis”). As required 
by the reporting Standard, the “GRI Content Index” is reported at the end of this document, containing details of the 
accounted indicators. 
The process of collecting the data and information necessary for the drafting of the DNF involved various functions 
of the Group companies and was set up to ensure reporting in line with the GRI principles of balance, comparability, 
accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability.
The Consolidated Disclosure of Non-Financial Information is currently set to be published annually. The latest Group 
DNF was in fact made available in April 2019, via publication in the “Media Library” section of the corporate website.