Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019 155
The Board of Directors of Prysmian S.p.A. approved this document on 30 March 2020.
This document has been subjected to a limited examination, according to the principle of the International 
Standard on Assurance Engagement (ISAE 3000 Revised), undertaken by EY S.p.A. The audit was performed ac-
cording to the procedures indicated in the “Independent Auditors’ Report”, included in this document.
Please direct comments, requests, opinions and ideas for improving the activities of Prysmian and the informa-
tion contained in the Sustainability Report to:
CORPORATE AND BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS 
+39 0264491 
sustainability@prysmiangroup,com
NOTES ON THE DATA AND INFORMATION
With reference to currently adopted policies, the Group’s strategies and the associated procedures for the mana-
gement of sustainability issues identified as material, are, unless otherwise specified, applicable to the entire 
perimeter of the Group after the acquisition of General Cable. 
In general, for all the data that presents a cross-section by geographical area, the EMEA, APAC, North America 
and LATAM regions were taken in to account. For details of the countries included in the geographical regions, 
please refer to the map of the Group’s plants shown in the “The Prysmian Group” section. Mexico has been classi-
fied in the LATAM region since 2018 (in line with the former General Cable classification), having been categori-
sed in the North and Central America region in previous years. 
Workforce data 
For 2019, the total data for the Group at 31/12/2019 is considered.  For 2019 as in 2018, the data reported in the 
document considers the total headcount of all the Group companies consolidated line-by-line (excluding, as in 
previous years, Oman Aluminium Processing Industries - OAPIL). This approach applies to all tables except for 
the table on the total workforce of the Group representing the Group Full Time Equivalent (FTE), which includes 
not only employees but also temporary and OAPIL workers, in line with the information contained in the Annual 
Report. 
By contrast with the turnover data reported for 2018, non-financial reporting has been improved by considering 
all white-collar and blue-collar workers (excluding the employees of Oman Aluminium Processing Industries – 
OAPIL and Associated Cables Pvt. Ltd.). Employee departures now include all reasons for leaving (e.g. voluntary 
departures, retirement, redundancies, etc.).