156 Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019
As regards the 2018 data on turnover: 
  Prysmian Group w/o General Cable: absolute values of new employee hires and employee departures s were 
reported, only for white collar staff with permanent contracts for the full year of 2018; in addition, the re-
porting of the turnover of outgoing permanent contract white collar staff considers only voluntary exits (in 
line with the contents of the 2017 and 2016 reports). These rates are calculated with respect to the number 
of employees as at 31/12/2017;
    Prysmian Group: absolute values of incoming and outgoing employees were reported for the period from 
September to December 2018 – for all reasons for leaving (e.g. voluntary departures, retirements, redun-
dancies, etc.).
Environmental data
The environmental data presented in the document is derived from a reporting system that, with respect to 
the declared perimeter of the reporting, does not include offices as they have a reduced environmental impact 
when considering the production activities of the Group. 
With regard to the data for 2019, the presence of certain data with reliability below the predetermined thre-
shold necessitated, as a precaution and to allow full coverage of the reporting area, the use of estimates for 
environmental data regarding:
  the Chiplun production site (India);
  the Sohar production site (Oman).
Similarly, with regard to the 2018 data for the Prysmian Group w/o General Cable, estimates were made for the 
environmental data regarding: 
  the Muscat production site (Oman);
  the Sohar production site (Oman);
  some production sites that are not fully aligned with the Group’s data collection methods. i.e. Chiplun and 
Pune (India), Grombalia (Tunisia) and Shanghai and Wuhan (China);
  Joinville, the operating unit dedicated solely to the production of wire rod. 
With regard to the former General Cable perimeter, the sites of Luanda (Angola), La Pointe (Canada) and Noga-
les (Mexico) are excluded from the 2018 data. 
Environmental data is not yet reported in relation to the installation of terrestrial and submarine cables (the 
environmental aspects and methods of management differ greatly from those of the operating units), since a 
project is currently in progress for the future collection and reporting of representative indicators, using dedica-
ted tools. Note that the environmental performance indicators relating to energy, greenhouse gas emissions, 
waste (including the proportion intended for recovery and recycling) and water have been partly derived from 
estimates, in view of the data collection deadlines for the preparation of this Statement. These estimates are 
based on the best information available from data of the previous year relating to the same period of time and/
or on the basis of production.
Note also that the Nordhenam manufacturing site for the production of Telecom cables is included under the 
production of power cables - the same applies to the Montereau site - since it was not possible to separate the 
data into two types of product. 