Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019 173
DESCRIPTION OF MATERIAL TOPICS  
Macro area Material topics Description
Business  management  model  based  on  the  most  stringent 
standards of business ethics and integrity, especially with regard 
Business ethics and integrity 
to the measures adopted by the Group to prevent both active and 
passive corruption.
Corporate 
Cyber security and data  Strengthen the cyber security measures to manage information 
governance and 
protection security risks and ensure the protection of data and privacy.
compliance
Governance organisation and mechanisms designed to ensure 
the fair and transparent management of business activities and 
Governance and transparency 
the involvement of employees, management and shareholders, 
partly via the share ownership plan reserved for employees.
Market approach that makes the customer and product quality 
Customer Centricity
central to all strategic and organisational decisions.
Research and development activity linked to the development 
Technological development  of  sustainable  products  and  processes,  considering  the 
Products and Eco-design innovation environmental and social impact of the product throughout its 
entire life cycle.
Develop solutions that may generate sustainability benefits (e.g. 
Solutions for sustainable 
solutions for plants that generate renewable energy, smart grids, 
applications
innovative solutions for the electrical system).
Policies and actions to monitor and reduce energy consumption 
Energy efficiency and  and minimise atmospheric emissions (e.g. initiatives to enhance 
combating climate change  energy efficiency, the use of renewable sources of energy, “green” 
practices in office areas).
Environment
Waste management and  Aware management of waste via the promotion of such practices 
recycling as reuse, differentiated collection and recycling.
Efficient use of water  Aware and efficient management of water resources.
resources
Responsible and efficient use of the raw materials employed in 
Efficient use of raw materials 
production processes, considering their availability and impact.
Policies and actions to attract talent and ensure the development 
Attracting talent and  of  human  resources,  including  training  and  mentoring 
developing human capital  programmes, remuneration policies, benefit polices and reward 
systems, career plans and long-term incentives.
Promotion of physical and emotional well-being, the work-life 
Company welfare and  balance and initiatives for employees and their families (e.g. 
employee well-being creches and works canteens, flexi-hours and opportunities to 
work from home).
Multiculturalism, diversity and  Promotion of multiculturalism and social inclusion, protection of 
Prysmian’s People
equal opportunity  diversity in the workplace and the reduction of wage differentials.
Systems for managing occupational health and safety, in order to 
Occupational health and  reduce the number of injuries and occupational diseases and, via 
safety suitable training programmes, develop a culture of prevention 
and management covering these two aspects.
Policies and actions to protect human rights throughout the entire 
Respect for human rights and  value chain (banning child and forced labour, respect for freedom 
workers' rights  of association and collective bargaining, fair pay); development 
of collaborative relations with the trade unions.
Monitoring and assessment of suppliers on such topics as the 
environment, human rights and the social aspects, in addition 
Supply chain Sustainable supply chain to the quality of their products and services; building supplier 
awareness about the environment, human rights and the social 
aspects.
Group  activities  designed  to  promote  access  to  energy  and 
Local communities Corporate Citizenship  telecommunications for everyone; sponsorships and donations 
for the development of local communities.