Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019 17
BUSINESS AREAS 
Following the acquisition of General Cable (2018), the structure of the Group - with applications in over one hun-
dred sectors - was organised into a matrix of reference markets and business units. 
Energy 
The Energy business area comprises businesses offering a complete and innovative 
product portfolio designed to meet the many diverse demands of the market. It is or-
ganised as follows: Energy & Infrastructure, which includes Trade & Installers, Power 
Distribution and Overhead Transmission Lines, and Industrial and Network Componen-
ts, which includes Oil & Gas, Downhole Technology, Elevators, Automotive, Network 
Components and Specialties & OEM, serving in turn the following sectors: Cranes, Mi-
ning, Railways, Rolling Stock, Marine and Renewables (cables for applications in the 
solar energy industry and for the operation of wind turbines).
Projects 
This business area comprises high-tech and high value-added businesses focused on 
the design, production and customisation of HV cabling systems for terrestrial and 
submarine applications. The Group develops pioneering “turnkey” submarine cable 
systems for installation at depths of up to 3,000 metres, assisted by its cable-laying 
fleet comprising the Giulio Verne, the Cable Enterprise and the Ulisse. Prysmian Group 
also offers advanced services for submarine interconnections between countries and 
between offshore wind farms and the mainland, used for both the generation and 
distribution of electricity.
Telecom 
The Telecom business area comprises businesses devoted to making the cabling 
systems and connectivity products used in tlc networks. The product portfolio includes 
optical fibre, optical cables, connectivity components and accessories, OPGW (Optical 
Ground Wire) and copper cables. The Group is also among the leaders in the production 
of optical fibre - the essential component of all types of optical cables. A wide range 
of optical fibres is designed and made using proprietary technology to cater to the 
broadest possible spectrum of customer applications: single-mode, multimode and 
specialty fibres. In both cables and connectivity, the Group focuses on the design of 
products that provided greater density in a smaller diameter, with ease of use and 
optimal fibre management.
PRYSMIAN GROUP, LINKING THE FUTURE LEADING INNOVATION GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR DNA A PUBLIC COMPANY OUR COMMITMENT