22 Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019
Significant facts 
The fingerprint of cables that provi- Intelligent virtual assistant for ma-
des information in real time naging drums and electrical cables
PRY-ID  is  the  intelligent,  innovative  solution  ALESEA is the new IoT solution that provides vir-
launched  by  Prysmian  that  provides  real- tual assistance in the management of drums: this 
time  access  to  key  information  about  cables  is the first innovation from Corporate Hangar, the 
and  accessories:  case  type,  length,  source,  innovation hub of Prysmian. An intelligent device 
components connected. This represents a type of  is installed on the drum and cloud infrastructu-
“fingerprint” for cables, which translates into cost  re makes it possible to file and process the data, 
savings and enhanced safety by making it easier  accessible via an intuitive web platform. To date, 
to locate cables and components reliably within  over 1,000 Alesea devices have been tested in 7 
buildings countries.
Innovative technology FLEXRIBBON
for monitoring networks
FlexRibbon is the optical fibre cable with the lar-
PRY-CAM is proprietary Prysmian technology for  gest number of fibres in the world: using extre-
monitoring, managing and assessing the condi- mely flexible fibre ribbons, almost 7,000 fibres 
tion of electrical systems, innovatively drawing on  can be fitted into a low-diameter cable. This ma-
a series of products to record all key parameters  kes it possible to insert the largest possible num-
(partial discharges, current, voltage, temperatu- ber of fibres into the space available, miniaturi-
re, humidity etc.) and facilitate efficient manage- sing the cable.
ment using a predictive approach.
A Brand of Prysmian Group
The Leonardo da Vinci, the largest cable-laying ship in the world,
has a low environmental impact
Prysmian has begun construction of the Leonardo 
da Vinci, the largest cable-laying ship in the world. 
This vessel is designed to be the most efficient and 
effective on the market, with increased capacity 
and greater versatility for the implementation of 
projects. The ship will be equipped with leading sy-
stems for reaching and holding position at sea, whi-
le its engines and propulsion systems have been 
designed specifically to reduce the environmental 
impact. The new vessel will be fully operational by 
2Q 2021.