Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019 23
BENDBRIGHTXS 180μm - Revolutionary innovation for broadband
Prysmian has launched the first fibre in the world that can be 
bent at will, with a diameter of 180 microns that allows cable 
miniaturisation at a level never before achieved. Optical fibre 
cables are a crucial part of the global transition to flexible and 
reliable connectivity. Their large number of fibres and reduced 
diameter makes installation quicker and cheaper. This innovation 
confirms the commitment of Prysmian to support the evolution 
of high density optical networks.
Interconnection of the Cycladic islands
Prysmian is achieving a new first thanks to a new cable with synthetic sheathing that is about 30% lighter 
than steel, thus paving the way to new scenarios in which installations at great depth, up to 3,000 metres, 
will be possible.
The Group is using this new technology for the undersea electrical interconnection of the Cycladic Islands, 
Evia, Andros and Tinos, involving the design, supply and installation of two high voltage AC cables that will 
increase energy transmission between the islands, ensuring solidity, reliability and sustainability.
Dow Jones Sustainability Index 2019:  Listening to our Stakeholders
important recognition
Prysmian has held an event for stakeholders at 
The  Prysmian  Group  was  included  in  the  Dow  its headquarters, to update them on the Group 
Jones Sustainability World for the first time in  strategies and action plans addressing the main 
2019. This is the largest international index for the  trends and topics with regard to sustainability.
assessment  of  performance  in  environmental, 
More  than  70  high-profile  attendees  from 
social  and  governance  (ESG)  terms.  Inclusion 
customers  and  commercial  partners,  suppliers, 
in  this  index  recognises  the  efforts  made  by 
investors,  universities  and  trade  unions 
Prysmian  to  define  a  sustainable  business 
contributed, via their involvement, to the creation 
approach and serve as an enabler in developing 
and development of a dialogue on sustainability 
the  best  cable  and  optical  fibre  technologies, 
and  the  definition  of  Group  priorities  on  ESG 
thus supporting the transition towards a more 
matters.
sustainable use of energy resources, digitalisation 
and the decarbonisation of economies.
 
{
The DJSI is based on the appraisals of RobecoSAM 
70 Partners
ESG, which awarded Prysmian a score of 84/100 
Providers
and a Silver Sustainability Yearbook Award 2020.
Investors
Universities
High-profile  Labor unions
attendees
PRYSMIAN GROUP, LINKING THE FUTURE LEADING INNOVATION GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR DNA A PUBLIC COMPANY OUR COMMITMENT