Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019 31
The Group completed the priority definition process in 2016. Analysis considered the main global and industry 
trends, the 17 Sustainable Development Goals for 2030 (SDGs) defined by the United Nations, requests from 
major International Sustainability Indexes (Dow Jones Sustainability Index, FTSE4GOOD, CDP, Bloomberg ESG, 
etc.) and the needs and expectations of the Group’s stakeholders, which are mapped each year through sta-
keholder engagement initiatives undertaken by the Group.
The analysis was then supplemented by strategic guidance from the Compensation, Appointments and Sustai-
nability Committee of the Board of Directors, establishing the strategic priorities and, therefore, the related 
KPIs, targets and actions needed to achieve them. 
The SDGs played a key role in defining the objectives of the Group, enabling the Prysmian Group to supplement 
its own priorities with those identified by the UN and compare its strategic sustainability goals with those adop-
ted at a global level. 
The Prysmian Group has identified 13 SDGs with a direct business impact, 5 of which are considered to be the most 
important: Industry, innovation and infrastructure (SDG 9), Sustainable cities and communities (SDG 11), Affor-
dable and clean energy (SDG 7), Responsible consumption and production (SDG 12) and Gender equality (SDG 5). 
These are supplemented by the suggestions that emerge from annual meetings with Stakeholders and the re-
quirements of the main Sustainability Indexes. 
FIRST PILLAR SECOND PILLAR THIRD PILLAR
S
E
I
T
I
R
SUSTAINABLE AND
O
INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS RESPONSIBLE USE OF ENERGY  DEVELOPMENT OF PEOPLE AND 
I
R FOR THE BUSINESS AND WATER RESOURCES COMMUNITIES
P
Facilitate the deployment of  Pursue the responsible consumption  Contribute to the development of people 
accessible energy and innovation in  of natural resources and sustainable  and local communities.
telecommunications and infrastructure. supplies.
1. Develop innovative products  5. Pursue the efficient and su- 7. Participate in and contribute 
and  solutions  that  support  stainable use of energy and  to the socio-economic deve-
improvement of the sustaina- natural  resources  by  redu- lopment of the communities 
bility  of  telecommunication  cing  consumption  and  gre- in which the Group operates, 
and energy infrastructures. enhouse gas emissions, while  via the adoption of an appro-
minimising  the  generation  priate Corporate Citizenship 
2. Boost the sale of high quality, 
of waste and promoting the  and Philanthropy policy.
reliable and green products 
recycling and reuse of mate-
and services. 8. Promote ethical conduct and 
S rials.
N 3. Contribute to the universal  the training and professional 
O dissemination of energy and  6. Promote  sustainable  busi- growth of personnel, protect 
I telecommunications  via  re- ness practices between our  diversity  and  the  rights  of 
T suppliers and business part- workers and develop a heal-
C liable  and  accessible  infra-
ners. thy workplace environment.
A structure.
9. Develop  effective,  transpa-
4. Facilitate  access  to  clean 
rent and responsible commu-
energy, via the development 
nications with stakeholders.
of solutions for the producers 
of renewable energy and sup-
port for the research into su-
stainable technologies.
PRYSMIAN GROUP, LINKING THE FUTURE LEADING INNOVATION GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR DNA A PUBLIC COMPANY OUR COMMITMENT