34 Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019
PRYSMIAN GROUP IN THE ESG INDEXES
INDEXES DESCRIPTION Result
SCORE 2019 SCORE 2018
The DJSI is based on an analysis of Group 
84/100; 79/100;
economic, environmental and social 
Rank: 2nd (included) Rank: 4th (not included)
performance.
The CDP is the most recognised NGO in the 
world for the assessment of transparency in 
B (World) B (World)
disclosure by companies of climate change 
information.
The Standard Ethics Italian Index is an open-
free stock market index with a focus on  EE+  EE+
governance and sustainability
The FTSE4Good Index series are equity 
3.9/5 3.9/5 
indexes launched in 2001 by the FUSE Group to 
E: 4.0/5; E: 3.7/5;
measure the performance of companies that 
S: 4.3/5; S: 4.6/5;
demonstrate strong Environmental, Social and 
G: 3.3/5 G: 3.3/5
Governance (ESG) practices
The Stoxx ESG indexes are a new group of 
indexes. Their ratings are based on specific  Included Not included
environmental, social and governance  (STOXX Italy 45 ESG-X e 
performance indicators in addition to overall  STOXX Europe 600 ESG-X)
sustainability performance.
EcoVadis is a platform that allows companies 
to monitor the sustainability performance of  73/100 (Gold) N/A
their suppliers through an assessment 
Bloomberg collects Environmental, Social 
and Governance data from corporate public 
communications. Bloomberg ESG Disclosure 
40.9/100 40.1/100
Scores evaluates companies on the basis of 
their disclosure of ESG data, in consideration 
of the relevant industries.
MAJOR SUSTAINABILITY EVENTS IN 2019
On 9 January 2019, Prysmian Central  The Prysmian Group was recognised  The  Prysmian  Group  has  reached 
America and Caribbean, with head- as one of the best Italian business in  an  historic  milestone  in  Brazil  in 
quarters in Costa Rica, was authori- terms of successfully integrating its  relation to its integration with Ge-
sed by Procomer (national body re- sustainability  objectives  within  its  neral Cable. The new offices were 
sponsible for promoting Costa Rica  model of governance, with inclusion  inaugurated  in  July,  on  the  90th 
export products and services) to use  in the Integrated Governance Index anniversary of the Group’s presence 
the “essential COSTA RICA” mark, sy- for the first time. The Integrated Go- in Brazil. The Sorocaba plant now 
nonymous with excellence, innova- vernance Index, developed by ETica- has additional production capacity; 
tion, sustainability, social progress  News in collaboration with Top Legal,  a new distribution area extending 
and guarantee of Costa Rica origin. measures the strict integration of en- over 23,000 square metres, and an 
vironmental, social and governance  advanced  R&D  laboratory,  giving 
(ESG) criteria within the strategies of  the facility everything needed to 
the business. become a centre of excellence for 
the entire Group.