38 Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019
  industrial relations, included in “Respect for human rights and workers’ rights”;
  access to energy, included in “Corporate citizenship”;
  cyber security and data protection, governance and transparency, solutions for sustainable applications and 
company welfare and employee well-being were included in the range of topics.
The updated list of topics assessed in 2019 is presented below11:
Local communities
 Corporate citizenship 
Prysmian’s People  Environment
 Attracting talent and developing   Energy efficiency and combating 
human capital  climate change
 Company welfare and employee   Waste management
well-being  and recycling
 Multiculturalism, diversity  Efficient use of water resources
and equal opportunity   Efficient use of raw materials
 Occupational health and safety 
 Respect for human rights
and workers’ rights
Products  Corporate governance and compliance 
 Customer centricity   Business ethics and integrity 
 Technological development  Cyber security and data protection
and Eco-design innovation   Governance and transparency
 Solutions for sustainable 
applications
Supply chain
 Sustainable supply chain
2. Assessment of topics
The topics were assessed by both external stakeholders and top management, identifying an order of priority 
(from 1 to 5) for them within the materiality matrix. The topics were assessed in 2019 during stakeholder enga-
gement activities (event and survey) and internal meetings (Sustainability Steering Committee and survey of 
top management). The assessment was carried out in the manner recommended in the GRI standards, which 
call on organisations to focus attention on topics that are important for their business activities and their sta-
keholders. As a result of this assessment it was possible to update the materiality matrix, providing an aggrega-
ted view of the importance of issues both for the Group and its stakeholders, in terms of the actual and potential 
impact of each on the Group’s ability to create value in the long run.
Downstream of this process, the issues have been grouped into a special reconciliation table12 under the areas 
identified in the Decree (environmental, human rights, social, anti-corruption, employees and transversal). in 
order to align reporting with the express requirements of the Decree.
1 1  For further information about the description of each topic, see the table included in the “Attachments” to this document.
12 For further information, see the “Correlation table Decree 254/2016 and GRI aspects” included in the “Attachments” to this document.