42 Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019
Sustainable innovation
2019 numbers
RO106 UT5 900 25
U O ,
E B
A
million Patents  Research 
invested in R&D13 covering the main Centres
innovations
180 50 900
Product Families  Collaborations Professionals
launched during with research centres 
the year and universities
A total of 900 professionals are dedicated to innovation in 25 R&D centres throughout the world. The R&D head-
quarter  is based in Milan, next to the HQ of the Prysmian Group.
Prysmian Group is committed to giving customers - mainly telco operators and utilities - the best cabled infra-
structure solutions with the best possible performance in the field.
The role of cables - from those for low, medium and high voltage electricity, to those for special applications and 
communications, and to cables for the transmission and distribution of data and telephony services - is crucial, given 
that by meeting ever more sophisticated requirements they make possible the transmission of power and data.
The Group focuses on increasing the efficiency and reliability of the transmission and distribution of energy 
from renewable sources, reducing at the same time the total cost of cabling solutions for our customers.
At the same time, the Group is also committed to the development of technological innovations that lower 
energy and water consumption and reduce the greenhouse gas emissions of our manufacturing facilities. These 
projects deliver improved productivity and lower the consumption of materials, thus reducing the environmen-
tal impact of products.
The Design to Cost (DTC) programme represents a tangible initial example of this orientation. Using the best 
materials, adopting efficient processes and implementing innovative projects, this programme has achieved 
cost savings totalling more than Euro 45 million, with more than 1,300 projects completed at our manufactu-
ring plants during 2019.
    
13 Euro 96 million in operating expenses and Euro 10 million in investment expenditure.