Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019 49
Corporate Hangar: 
infrastructure for open in-
novation by Prysmian Group
  Corporate Hangar is an ac-
celerator that supports the 
open  innovation  objectives 
of the Group, combining bu-
siness modelling and strategic skills with the technical know-how provided by Prysmian Group 
employees.
  After laying the groundwork for growth during 2018, Corporate Hanger and Prysmian Group 
founded the first two start-ups in 2019: Alesea, which provides virtual support for the mana-
gement of drums and cables, and Kablee, an e-commerce platform for cables, which supports 
development of the business in new areas. The two initiatives are currently being developed 
at the Corporate Hanger accelerator, whose innovation pipeline comprises more than 10 ad-
ditional ideas, including a full suite of services for operators in the field of renewable energy. 
Together with a network of external partners, Corporate Hanger is carrying out various resear-
ch projects linked to the production of bioplastics and the creation of materials from the waste 
generated by industrial processes (e.g. the paper recycling process, the production of tequila) 
or from other green sources (e.g. bamboo), in order to make new, green and sustainable mate-
rials available (e.g. for drums). The end objective is to provide the Prysmian Group with alterna-
tives for logistics and packaging that have a lower environmental impact, benefiting from the 
growth opportunities that derive from the more circular use of resources.
Alesea: intelligent virtual 
assistant for managing 
cable drums
  Alesea is an IoT solution that 
provides virtual support for 
the management of drums. 
The system comprises an in-
telligent device installed on the drums, a cloud infrastructure for filing and processing data, 
and an intuitive web platform that indicates the location of the drums and the remaining quan-
tity of cable on each. This complete inventory management service helps to reduce the overall 
cost of cable management, due to the better use of assets, greater operational efficiency, op-
timised logistics and the minimisation of waste, cable scrap and environmental impact. Since 
formal establishment in September 2019, more than 1,000 Alesea devices have been involved 
in pilot projects in Sweden, Finland, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Italy and now the 
United States, with the full commercial roll-out due to begin during the first quarter of 2020.
PRYSMIAN GROUP, LINKING THE FUTURE LEADING INNOVATION GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR DNA A PUBLIC COMPANY OUR COMMITMENT