54 Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019
CARBON FOOTPRINT (CFP)
The new functionality added to the cable design system – the Common Analisi platform - makes possible to cal-
culate the environmental parameters of each product and is applicable in full within the pre-existing Prysmian 
Group perimeter. There are two outcomes: carbon footprint and recycling potential. The CFP is expressed in kgs 
of CO associated with the standard length (1 km) of the cable and includes the impact of the materials and pro-
2
cesses. The recycling potential of the raw materials used to produce the cable is calculated, considering the 
portion recoverable at the end-of-life and the portion that will have to be treated as waste or incinerated. The 
new functionality, proprietary to Prysmian, is currently being extended to the General Cable area, where the 
“Common Analisi” and SAP1 Client platforms are being implemented. This includes, in particular, the Iberian 
peninsula, Brazil (operational from July 2019), France and Chile (scheduled for year end). For the remaining are-
as, especially GCC NA, the new functionality will be included in Cable Builder, the software that (by 2022) will 
become the cable design tool for the entire Company.
The CFP data for materials obtained from the new version of the Ecoinvent database (Ecoinvent 3.3) was input 
to the “Common Analisi” platform in January 2019, replacing the CFP data obtained from the previous version 
(Ecoinvent 3.2).
Based on the CA calculations, environmental certification has been obtained for a series of cables produced for 
a global operator of power grids (DSO), which is currently adding the environmental impact of cables to its sup-
plier classification criteria. This process has been tackled in Italy, Spain and the LATAM countries, in particular. 
Specifically, in Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Colombia, ISO 14067:2018 certification of the carbon footprint of low 
and medium voltage cables has been awarded by third-party agencies (SGS and INCOTEC).
The above represents a fundamental initial step towards general regulation of the environmental impact and 
sustainability of commodities, which can only be implemented in full when the entire value chain achieves a 
significantly greater level of awareness.