Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019 57
Terrestrial cables
In developing extra high voltage cables systems, a fundamental objective was achieved on successful completion at CESI La-
boratories (Mannheim) of the pre-qualification tests for 525 kV HVDC applications for the corridors project in Germany. Two 
cabled systems, the related accessories and the various installation solutions have been qualified: XLPE and P-Laser, both 
HVDC, with operational temperatures of 70° and 90°C respectively. Following this significant result, Prysmian is the only cable 
manufacturer qualified with two different solutions that comply in full with the high standards set by the German transmis-
sion system operators (TSO).
In order to advance the industrialisation of these extra high voltage (EHVDC) cables, Gron plant has completed the pilot pro-
duction of 10 km of 525 kV cable at full size with a section area of 3,000 mm² (copper conductor). With regard to the P-Laser 
technology for HVDC application, a long series of improvements have been made to, for example, storage of the materials, 
extreme cleanliness during handling and the dosage and extrusion processes. Gron plant has also introduced new devices 
for the industrial production of solutions that apply this technology. As part of developing the EHVDC systems, Livorno plant 
has completed the production of full-scale prototypes of the new generation of accessories (up to 640 kV), with a dedicated 
industrial line.
Two development solutions are applied in order to satisfy the need to increase the energy transported. The first is to develop 
EHVAC systems: the first series of tests on the laboratory prototype was completed during 2019 and the results will be used 
in 2020 to continue the development phase, with a view to producing full-scale prototypes in 2021. The second solution is to 
develop copper and aluminium conductors with large sections, with lower losses due to the skin and proximity effects. Copper 
conductors with section areas up to 3,000 and 3,500 mm² have been tested; industrial production is now feasible, with impro-
vements in the loss reduction due to the skin effect. An efficient alternative would be the use of aluminium conductors with 
very large section areas of up to 4,000-4,500 mm². Additionally, in certain specific cases, some TSOs actually prefer larger 
aluminium conductors instead of traditional cables with copper conductors, since they weigh less and the investment cost is 
lower. There are in fact numerous, well-known arguments that support the use of aluminium conductors: possible reduction in 
the weight of XLPE cables; lower investment cost (excellent price/metre ratio, greater cable length) and reduced installation 
costs (lower cabling times, easier handling). The reduction of conductor losses (decreased skin effect) affects the total cost 
of ownership and, sometimes, an aluminium configuration is preferable to copper, considering the types of losses that are 
reduced. In this area, Prysmian is currently developing cabled systems with conductors with section areas up to 4,500 mm². 
The traditional transmission circuits still in service, with piped cables insulated in high pressure fluid (HPFF), are becoming 
obsolete. Some of these systems leak dielectric fluid into the environment and are difficult to repair. Given the overcrowded 
roads, it is also impossible to replace the existing pipes with traditional cable conduits (let alone larger pipes). This situation is 
becoming more critical in large US cities, making it necessary to start a programme to remove existing cabled systems and re-
place them with extruded cables at different voltages: 138, 220 and 345 kV. Work to develop a suitable system for the retrofit 
of the existing infrastructure of conduits for 138 kV cables has commenced, with the production of prototype cables and acces-
sories, and the qualification programme is also in progress. Additionally, the simple retrofit of XLPE cables using the existing 
conduits will not supply a voltage level equivalent to that of the existing HPFF cables. The thermal environment created due 
to the greater thickness of the XLPE insulations and the air surrounding the cables reducing the flow of power. Further studies 
are being considered, with a view to obtaining structures that are more compact with respect to those currently in use for the 
traditional XLPE cables.
A programme for the development of lead-free technologies has been launched for the production of metallic sheathing for 
submarine and terrestrial cables. With regard to the terrestrial cabled systems, the longitudinal welding of copper is the most 
innovative solution that allows direct water cooling of the XLPE cables retrofitted in steel pipes, reducing the size of the cables 
and ensuring a watertight configuration. Another version of this technology has also been developed for lifeline fire-resistant 
cables, now industrialised for most voltage levels and conductor section areas.
PRYSMIAN GROUP, LINKING THE FUTURE LEADING INNOVATION GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR DNA A PUBLIC COMPANY OUR COMMITMENT