58 Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019
ENERGY 
T&I (Trade and Installers) 
The T&I market continues to enjoy the positive influence of the CPR regulation, with an extension of the range of products 
to which the higher Euroclasses are applied. In particular, the Netherlands has adopted a higher level for the fume emissions 
of PVC cables, striving for greater safety in residential buildings. This new regulation, which will come into force at the start 
of 2020, has required intensive development work to upgrade to the next class the fume emissions of the low voltage cables 
normally used in this market. Significant changes have been made to the cable design and materials, and the new portfolio is 
now ready for sale. Notably, the sales of B2ca products (the highest category for the reaction to fire) in the Netherlands have 
tripled with respect to 2018 (data for the first half of the year). The German market (not yet oriented towards clear application 
of the CPR at national level) is moving towards higher Euroclasses, especially for cables with low fume emissions and without 
halogens (LSOH), with category Cca (or higher) performance in terms of their reaction to fire. The United Kingdom is working 
on a proposed high-end Euroclass for LSOH products. In Sweden, the sales of products with Euroclass Dca have increased con-
siderably with respect to the prior year.
In addition to the CPR, a number of initiatives have been launched to promote the use of bio-materials. In the Netherlands, 
the use of green alternatives is under development for the existing families of VD and VULT cables, packaging included, to 
which the principles of Lifecycle Design Strategy (LiDS) are being applied, given the circular economy orientation of the Dutch 
T&I market. In particular, technical consideration is being given to the use of s-XLPE (XLPE cross-linked with silanes) insula-
tion, with expanded skin and bio-colours, for buildings, in order to replace the standard insulation using fully coloured s-XLPE; 
the use of polypropylene (PP) insulation with coloured skin for construction cables, in order to replace the standard insulation 
using fully coloured s-XLPE, and the use of biological plasticizers for PVC compounds.
Work has been completed in Mexico on reducing the environmental impact of packaging: total elimination of real wood and a 25% 
reduction in the plywood content of drums for LAN data cables, and a 21% reduction in the use of wood for drums holding alumi-
nium conductors reinforced with steel (ACSR) for overhead lines. With regard to medium voltage cables, the use of wood for the 
drums has been reduced due to optimisation of the configuration, and the lagging has been reduced between 30 and 50%.
Power distribution and overhead lines
With regard to power distribution cables, the P-Laser concept has been taken to the next level with a new version required by 
the main Italian distribution network operators (DSO). A new version with insulating shield that can be stripped while cold has 
been qualified and included in the new tender for power distribution cables in Italy. Additionally, another leading DSO at Euro-
pean level is involved in a new pilot test of P-Laser cables. Prysmian has aligned the new thermoplastic insulation for medium 
voltage cables with the European HD 620 regulation, paving the way for the adoption of P-Laser in cables in other EU countries.
Introduction of the new, lead-free flexible elastomeric insulation for medium voltage cables is progressing rapidly in North 
America, with an excellent market reception. Given the upgraded electrical properties, exceptional resistance to corona di-
scharges and improved flexibility, customers are choosing the new type of insulation for the majority of their applications and 
are also considering its use in rural areas. Many of the applications are relevant to the E&I market, renewable energy projects 
and utilities for the distribution of energy.
The optimisation of “MV Wind Farm Designs CL Advantage” is an important innovation, with reduced diameter and lower 
environmental impact. The optimised configuration concept has been launched onto the market using copper wire for the 
concentric protection conductor and a cross-linked sheath, thus making it possible to reduce both cable diameter and the en-
vironmental impact of the entire family of medium voltage cables. Total deliveries have exceeded 10,000 tonnes. The concept 
of this configuration will be extended and applied to other customers, with new contracts expected for 2020.
The E3X technology for aerial conductors (which increases transmissible energy by about 25%) is achieving success in North 
America, where it has been extended to more than 20 utilities that are Prysmian customers. This concept is applied with posi-
tive results to high temperature overhead lines (aluminium conductors with composite sheathing - ACCC), where the need to 
reduce Joule loss and voltage drop when the grid is heavily loaded is of fundamental importance to the utilities.