60 Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019
In the context of technologies for the mobility of the future, Prysmian Group has donated the motor cable to the testing 
centre for the Hyperloop project established in Delft (Netherlands) by Hardt, a business leader active in the development of 
a network of Hyperloop links in Europe.
Hardt has obtained positive results in terms of propulsion and exchange on a Hyperloop vehicle powered by Prysmian cables, 
marking a significant milestone in the creation of a high-speed transport system that is ten times more energy efficient than 
aeroplanes and three times more than trains.
Automotive
During 2019, the automotive sector focused even more on implementing various cabled solutions for the transmission of data 
that will be applied in connected driver-less cars. Prysmian Automotive has worked on developing several important solutions 
relating to data transmission cables. Two UTP cables have been designed, paying particular attention to the thickness of the 
special insulation and the reduced size of the copper alloy conductor, in order to support the stability of data transfer in appli-
cations using a faster CAN FD BUS.
For 100 Mb Ethernet applications, a third UTP cable has been perfected that is sheathed in a special insulating material and has 
a miniaturised copper conductor.
In addition to the trend towards connected driver-less cars, the automotive sector dedicates special attention to the pro-
gress made in the development of electric mobility, having regard for environmental protection, the increasing shortage of 
fossil fuels and achievement of the ambition objectives for the reduction of CO emissions set by the EU. Electric vehicles can 
2
make a significant contribution to environmental protection and the avoidance of emissions. In 2019 Prysmian Automotive 
launched a special single-core cable for temperatures of up to 150°C for use in managing the batteries of electric vehicles. 
Various projects have commenced to address proposed cable designs for high voltage batteries, shielded or not, in response 
to growing requirements for the temperature stability and flexibility of cables.
Elevators
The elevator sector is characterised by increasing interest in big data and predictive maintenance; accordingly, the launch 
of mobile cables compliant with standard UL 62 and the Cat5e requirements has attracted great interest from OEMs and the 
leading mid-size, independent producers active in the U.S. market. Subsequent to this launch, work commenced in 2019 on 
optimisation of the existing signal pairs, which will be completed during 2020 We expect a reduction in the use of plastic com-
pounds by making recourse to alternative materials and the down-sizing allowed by performance improvements.
Prysmian Electronics
In 2019 PE focused on the development of two important products. The first, “Pry-Cam DTS”, is an optical device for permanent 
installation that measures the temperature of the cable along its length and/or internally using DTS (Distributed Temperature 
Sensing) technology. This device was designed specifically to work over distances of up to 30 km, with a spatial resolution of 1 
m and a temperature precision (with a measuring time of 5 minutes) of less than 2°C. The second, “Pry-Cam Home”, is a system 
for monitoring low voltage applications based on Pry-Cam technology, which uses a device to measure the main parameters 
of a low voltage domestic electrical installation. The device has been designed to help electricians make the necessary checks 
during the acceptance testing of new electrical installations, or when carrying out maintenance or periodic checks. This can 
be defined as a “prosumer” device, as it can be used by both professional electricians and end consumers, with different fun-
ctionalities depending on the skills of the user, but with the same purpose: check the proper functioning of the electrical 
installation and, therefore, its safety.