Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019 61
Network Components (Accessories)
The strategic roadmap for extra high voltage components (>220 kV) is focused on the reliability of the cabled systems. The 
main work on these components was related to:
•  Robust design
•  Processes and technologies
•  Alternative source of EPR compounds
•  Installation method
Special attention was paid to the design of the 300 kV EPR connectors, whose geometry was optimised in order to improve 
reliability when positioning connectors during field installations. The robust design of the EPR joint was studied with referen-
ce to the design concept used for the higher class 500 kV and the electric stress has been reduced by about 17%. Alternative 
sources of EPR compounds have also been studied and the preliminary prototypes made in November 2019 has given promi-
sing results.
With regard to the subsea business, type tests were positive with regard to the design of a new repair connector in the form of 
a rigid elastomeric ring for application at great depths (1,400 m). Although visual inspection work is still in progress, it is fair 
to say that Evia GESM has successfully passed the water penetration test.
Qualification for the type test of the 66 kV cables for the Borsele project has been completed successfully, including with re-
gard to the new “universal” asymmetric SPEED line connector. Visual inspection is in progress.
After several technical challenges, we have qualified the transition connector for HPFF-XLPE 138 kV AC cables in accordance 
with the Con Ed specification, which opens up opportunities for the “Specialties” business in North America.
All electrical trials carried out on 66 kV cabled systems, including the Coldfit terminals assembled using Slip-on technology, 
were completed successfully at the Shanghai laboratory at the end of November 2019.
 
TELECOM 
Optical cables 
Prysmian continued to expand the range of FlexRibbon cables during 2019. Following the launch of cables with 1,728, 3,456 
and 6,912 optical fibres in 2018, the focus in 2019 was on the development of cables with a lower density of fibres. This resulted 
in the launch of cables with 288, 432 and 864 fibres for areas external to the installations. Additionally, the development of ri-
ser cables with 864 and 1,728 fibres for internal applications was completed and qualification was obtained for both versions. 
The development of ribbon cables with breakout expansion boards that allow the ribbon to be separated into individual fibres 
was also completed. Prysmian continues to invest in the FlexRibbon technology, so much so that the first European line was 
installed in the United Kingdom during 2019. This will lead to the perfection of new types of FlexRibbon cable during 2020, 
including the loose tube and Flextube versions. During 2019, Prysmian also developed a new range of blown micro cables with 
Pico tubes. This new technology reduces the size of loose tubes, for example the diameter of the 12 fibre tube has decreased 
from 1.3 mm to 1.0 mm at present. As a result, a new range of cables has been developed with between 96 and 552 fibres and 
world-record density of up to 10.5 fibres/mm2, allowing the installation of a larger number of fibres in existing conduits and 
the use of smaller tubes in new installations, while also reducing installation costs and the use of raw materials, for the benefit 
of customers in terms of the total cost of ownership and environmental impact. These recent improvements to our products 
confirm the commitment of Prysmian Group to invest in its cable and optical fibre capabilities, in order to respond to evolving 
market needs and support our customers.
PRYSMIAN GROUP, LINKING THE FUTURE LEADING INNOVATION GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR DNA A PUBLIC COMPANY OUR COMMITMENT