72 Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019
INVESTOR RELATIONS
Transparency in communication, growth in market confidence in the company and promotion of a 
long-term investment approach to its stock.
Creating value for shareholders, and other stakeholders, is a key priority for Prysmian, whose policy of stra-
tegic and financial communication is directed towards the highest standards of accuracy, clarity and tran-
sparency. Actions and procedures are designed to provide the market with credible information about the 
business, with a view to boosting confidence in the company and facilitating a long-term approach to invest-
ment in our shares. Every effort is made to avoid biased disclosures and ensure that all current and potential 
investors receive the same information, so that balanced investment decisions can be made.
Upon publishing its quarterly data, Prysmian organises conference calls with institutional investors and finan-
cial analysts and also invites specialist media representatives to take part. In addition, the Company promptly 
informs existing and potential shareholders about any action or decision that could have a material impact on 
their investment.
Relations with the financial market were intense during 2019, with more than 500 meetings with institutional 
investors at the Company’s offices, whether in the form of conference calls or one-on-one or group sessions. 
Prysmian also undertook numerous road shows in the main financial centres of Europe, North America and 
Asia, and took part in conferences organised by major international brokers. In addition, the increasing atten-
tion paid to the activities of the Group by socially responsible investors (SRI) was confirmed by their growing 
attendance at the road shows and meetings held for them. Lastly, during the year, the Group organised several 
visits to plants and R&D centres for institutional investors and financial analysts, in order to give them a dee-
per understanding of its products and production processes.
The coverage of Prysmian shares by analysts remains very high, with wide geographical diversification. There 
are 19 independent analysts who regularly cover the Prysmian stock: Banca Akros, Banca Profilo, Banca IMI, 
Barclays Capital, BofA Merrill Lynch, Citi, Credit Suisse, Equita, Exane BNP Paribas, Fidentiis, Goldman Sachs, 
Hammer Partners, HSBC, Intermonte, JP Morgan, Kepler Cheuvreux, Mediobanca, Morgan Stanley, Société 
Générale.
The Investor Relations function has maintained constant contacts with institutional investors, not least via 
the website www.prysmiangroup.com, which includes the recordings of conference calls and presentations 
to the financial community, corporate documentation, press releases and all other information relating to 
the Group, in both Italian and English. The Investor Relations section also includes the financial calendar, do-
cuments relating to shareholders’ meetings, the Code of Ethics, the contact details of analysts who cover the 
stock as well as specific sections about Corporate Governance, Risk Factors and Share Performance.