Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019 77
The Sustainability Risk Model of the Prysmian Group
STRATEGIC FINANCIAL OPERATIONAL
  Macroeconomic changes and    Economic and Financial    Eco-conscious customers and 
Geopolitical environment Integrity Green Sales
  Industry Trends and    Capital availability / cost risk   Green Products and 
competitive environment Technologies
  Sustainable Financial 
  Stakeholder expectations  counterparties   Product Lifecycle Footprint
(incl, sustainability ratings)
  Commodity risk and natural    Sustainable Supply Chain
  Natural Environment /  resource security
  Environmental (water, 
Human Capital Responsibility
energy, emissions, waste, 
  Organizational sustainability  etc.)
(framework & governance)
  Labor Practices & Human 
  Sustainability M&A, JVs,  Resources (incl. Health & 
business partners Safety)
  Sustainability Strategies    Outsourcing
(incl. Management 
  Sustainable Information 
Remuneration) and Business 
Technology
integration
  Contract execution / 
  Sustainable R&D
liabilities
  Law & regulation evolution
  Country Risk & Ethical Culture
LEGAL & COMPLIANCE PLANNING & REPORTING
  Sustainability Intellectual Property rights   Sustainability Budgeting & Strategic planning
  Compliance to environmental and social laws and    Sustainability Tax Planning & Reporting
regulations
  Management Reporting
  Compliance to Code of Ethics, Environmental and 
  Sustainability (Environmental and Social) 
Social Policies & Procedures
Reporting
As described in the Annual Report in the section on Risk Factors and Uncertainties, to which reference is made, 
the Group’s main business/function managers are involved in the annual process of identifying and evaluating the 
most significant risk factors. These include economic sustainability, environmental and social issues. A common 
and clearly defined methodology is used to measure and evaluate specific risk events in terms of their impact, 
probability of occurrence and the level of adequacy of the control system in place.
In 2019, the above-mentioned process led to the identification of risks – some linked purely to sustainability and 
others that may have a sustainability impact (and therefore also contained in the Annual Report in the section on 
“Risk Factors and Uncertainties”) – to which the Group is exposed under its business model. Relevant information, 
including the key strategies adopted to mitigate the risks, is presented below.
A process for updating the sustainability risk assessment was developed in 2020, with a view to refining the analy-
sis and integrating ESG topics more closely within the ERM process. The results of this approach will be included in 
the 2020 non-financial statement.
PRYSMIAN GROUP, LINKING THE FUTURE LEADING INNOVATION GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR DNA A PUBLIC COMPANY OUR COMMITMENT