Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019 83
Application of the model has been accompanied by monitoring and the provision of support to the numerous 
Prysmian legal entities in Europe, in order to ensure consistent application of the established controls and a 
corporate culture shared at an international level.
Following the acquisition of General Cable, monitoring and support was provided in order to extend the data 
protection model defined centrally by Prysmian to the recently-acquired legal entities.
Risks of non-compliance with anti-bribery legislation
In recent years, the legislative and regulatory context has made significant efforts in the fight against corrup-
tion, with a growing tendency to extend responsibility to legal entities as well as to natural persons. As part of 
the growing internationalisation, organisations increasingly operate in a context exposed to the risk of corrup-
tion and have to comply with many regulations on the subject, such as Decree no. 231/2001, the Anti-corruption 
Law (Law 190/2012), the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (US), the UK Bribery Act, etc., all of which have the same 
objective: counteract and suppress corruption.
The business model of the Group requires continuous interaction with numerous third parties (suppliers, inter-
mediaries, agents and customers). In particular, in the Energy (submarine and high voltage) and Oil & Gas bu-
sinesses, the management of large international projects requires the establishment of commercial relations 
even in countries with a potential risk of corruption (as per the Corruption Perception Index17), often through 
local and commercial agents and public officials.
The Prysmian Group has therefore implemented a series of actions aimed at managing the issues of corruption 
on a preventive basis; the first among these is the adoption of an Anti-Bribery Policy that prohibits the corrup-
tion of both public officials and private individuals and requires employees to comply with it, as well as observe 
and comply with all anti-corruption legislation in force in the countries where they are employed or active, if 
those are more restrictive. Furthermore, specific e-learning activities (training and testing) for all Group per-
sonnel are carried out periodically in order to raise awareness about compliance with the regulations concerned. 
As in the previous year, during 2019 the Prysmian Group carried out the activities specified in the Anti-Bribery 
Compliance Programme, based on the guidelines laid down in ISO 37001 “Anti-bribery management systems”.
On this topic, the Group also implemented the “Third Party Program” during 2019. This new Group policy is inten-
ded to prevent and manage the risk of corruption deriving from relations with third parties (such as agents, di-
stributors and certain categories of supplier).In particular, before establishing business relations with any third 
party, it is necessary to carry out due diligence in relation to that party using a dedicated on-line platform. As a 
result of the above activity, a level of risk (high, medium, low) is assigned to each third party that, consequently, 
is subjected to an approval procedure responsive to the identified risks.
Following the acquisition of General Cable in the second half of 2018, the Anti-Bribery Compliance Programme im-
plemented by Prysmian Group was integrated and expanded to include the additional related activities envisaged 
in the General Cable Compliance Programme.In addition, the compliance policies of Prysmian and General Cable 
were reviewed, updated and merged in 2019, in order to create documentation valid for the entire Group.
With specific reference to the anti-corruption programme, the relevant policy was revised together with that 
covering gifts and entertainment expenses. Lastly, a new conflicts of interest policy was issued in 2019, consi-
stent with the constant commitment of the Group to ensuring that the financial and personal interests of em-
ployees and consultants do not conflict with their ability to perform their duties with professionalism, ethics 
and transparency.
The new policy requires all employees and consultants to disclose all potential conflicts of interest, which will 
then be appropriately analysed and assessed in order to agree any corrective actions needed to mitigate or eli-
minate the conflict.
17  The Corruption Perception Index (CPI) is an indicator published annually by Transparency International, used to measure the perception of corruption in the public 
sector in various countries around the world.
PRYSMIAN GROUP, LINKING THE FUTURE LEADING INNOVATION GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR DNA A PUBLIC COMPANY OUR COMMITMENT