84 Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019
Risks of non-compliance with Antitrust legislation
Prysmian’s strong international presence subjects the Group to current antitrust regulations in Europe and the 
other countries in which it operates. Each of these laws are more or less demanding in terms of the civil-admi-
nistrative liability and penalties imposed for breach of applicable laws. Over the past decade, the various lo-
cal anti-trust authorities have dedicated increasing attention to the business activities of market players and, 
furthermore, have showed a greater propensity for international collaboration among themselves. Prysmian 
intends to operate in the marketplace in compliance with the rules in place to protect competition.
Consistent with the priorities defined in the ERM process, the Board of Directors has approved an Antitrust Code 
of Conduct that all directors, executives and employees of the Group are expected to know and comply with in 
the performance of their duties and in relations with third parties.
As with the other policies, the Antitrust Code of Conduct was also updated following the acquisition of Gene-
ral Cable, in order to have a document, valid for the entire Prysmian Group, that provides an overview of the 
problems associated with applying the antitrust regulations and the consequent principles of conduct to be 
followed. In addition, more detailed documents were also adopted covering the antitrust regulations in force 
within the European Union and in North America.
The Antitrust Code of Conduct, which is an integral part of this training programme, seeks to describe the issues 
relating to the application of Italian and EU competition policy with regard to cartels and the abuse of dominant 
positions. The specific situations arising must be assessed against this framework on a case-by-case basis. This 
action, stimulating knowledge and making individuals more aware of their professional duties and responsibi-
lities, represents a further step in establishing an “anti-trust culture” within the Group. In this context, further 
classroom training sessions, mostly for the Group’s sales force, were provided in 2019 in collaboration with exter-
nal tutors and legal advisors, together with e-learning sessions on the intranet to provide support and steadily 
increase the level of attention and awareness about the subject.
Risks of non-compliance with the regulations governing environmental matters, energy effi-
ciency and the management of emissions of greenhouse gases
Prysmian carries out its activities in compliance with the national and international requirements and regula-
tions in force in the environmental field, paying particular attention to the risk of failed or non-timely complian-
ce with regulatory changes that may occur within its business context. In particular, any non-compliance with 
environmental regulations may cause the Group to incur significant penalties, as well as unplanned costs for 
the implementation of immediate action plans with subsequent impact on operating and business processes.
In this regard, Prysmian has analysed the risk of not complying with any changes in local legislation that imple-
ments the “Energy Efficiency Directive” 2012/27/EU (EED) on the efficiency of end-use energy (transition risk in 
the Policy & Legal and Technology18 areas). Several actions have been taken to manage this risk, closely linked 
to the topic of climate change, including the definition of an Energy Audit Plan at the Group’s plants to be com-
pleted by 2020, also covering sites not yet required by law to perform energy audits, and the development of 
energy efficiency projects at local and global level.
In coordination with local teams, Group HSE management makes periodic visits to the plants to verify complian-
ce with the rules and standards defined, and organises specific training sessions for all Prysmian staff involved 
in the management of activities having an environmental impact, in order to raise awareness about conduct 
compliant with the Group’s regulations and ethics.
Specific indicators are also used at central level by the Group’s HSE and Risk Management departments to mo-
nitor the exposure to environmental risks and promptly implement the actions necessary to reduce risk within 
the tolerance thresholds.
18  As defined in “Implementing the Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures – Appendix 1 Table A1” – June 2017”.