88 Prysmian Group    Consolidated Non-Financial Information Statement 2019
In compliance with the provisions of art. 14 of the By-laws, the Company is currently managed by a Board of 
Directors consisting of twelve members - who will remain in office until the date of the annual general meeting 
that approves the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2020 - of whom eight are non-executive.
Seven of the directors are men and five women, five are in the 45-55 age group and seven are over 55.
The Board of Directors exercises the widest powers of ordinary and extraordinary administration, except for tho-
se that by law are reserved solely for the Shareholders’ Meeting; Consistent with the recommendations of the 
Code of Self-Regulation, the number and standing of the non-executive directors ensures that their opinions 
carry significant weight in the adoption of Board resolutions. Seven of the non-executive directors are indepen-
dent within the meaning of art. 148, par. 3 of Legislative Decree 58 dated 24 February 1998 (known as the Uni-
fied Finance Act) and of art. 3.C.1. and art. 3.C.2. of the Corporate Governance Code, while one non-executive 
director is independent within the meaning of art. 148, par. 3 of the Unified Finance Act. The Board of Directors 
has appointed a Chief Executive Officer and General Manager from among its members and granted him all the 
authority and powers of ordinary management of the company necessary or useful for conducting its business.
Management of the business is the responsibility of the directors, who take the actions necessary to imple-
ment the corporate purpose. The Board of Directors is also responsible for the Group’s internal control and risk 
management system and is therefore required to verify its adequacy and to adopt specific guidelines for this 
system, with the support of the other parties involved in the internal control and risk management system, 
namely the Control and Risks Committee, the Director in charge of the internal control and risk management 
system, the Chief Audit & Compliance Officer, the Board of Statutory Auditors and the Managers responsible 
for preparing corporate accounting documents.
Completing the Prysmian corporate governance structure is a Compensation, Nominations and Sustainability 
Committee and a Supervisory Body established pursuant to Decree 231/2001.
Further information regarding (i) the corporate governance system of Prysmian S.p.A., (ii) its ownership 
structure, as required by art.123-bis of the Unified Finance Act, and (iii) directors’ disclosures about direc-
torships or statutory auditor appointments held in other listed or relevant companies, can be found in the 
“Report on Corporate Governance and Ownership Structure”, prepared in accordance with art. 123-bis of the 
Unified Finance Act and available in the Investor Relations/Corporate Governance section of the company 
website at www.prysmiangroup.com.