Sustainability for Intercos  
Global  challenges  require  concerted  actions,  by  all  actors  in  the  economy.  For  this  reason,  Intercos 
understands its responsibility in ensuring a sustainable growth that guarantees the respect for the environment 
and for people’s rights, in its operations as well as throughout the entire value chain. 
To this aim, in the beginning of 2019 Intercos formalized its own Sustainability Policy, to define the Group’s 
sustainability priorities and commitments towards the stakeholders, in line with the core values in the daily 
management of the Company. 
Intercos’ sustainability commitment is based upon the following three pillars: 
“We live our Values”: is the commitment to allowing zero tolerance for corruption and creating a culture for 
transparency among the entire workforce; to promoting and to ensuring the respect for the principles of free 
competition and conducting business practices according to the principles of good faith, honesty and fairness; 
to guaranteeing the outmost respect for the right to business confidentiality of clients and the safety of products 
for final consumers. 
 “We care for People”: is the commitment to guaranteeing a healthy, inclusive an enabling work environment 
and promoting work-life balance; to investing in the development employees’ skills and competences; to 
engaging with local communities and creating opportunities for the most vulnerable. 
 “We believe in a Sustainable Beauty”: is the commitment to innovating formulas, ingredients and packaging 
as to continuously reduce the use of not renewable resources, promoting the use of recycled and recyclable 
materials and avoid the use of ingredients that might endanger the respect for human rights and the 
environment; to improving industrial processes as to reduce energy and water consumption, to efficiently 
manage waste and to actively contribute to the fight against climate change; to encouraging the Group’s 
suppliers to join the Grou’s commitment to respect the environment and society along the entire value chain.  
Furthermore, aiming at finding the Group’s material topics, Intercos updated its stakeholders map and 
materiality analysis conducted in 2018, through interviews and discussions with the management and in line 
with GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (hereinafter also “GRI Standards”), published in 2016 by the GRI 
– Global Reporting Initiative. Such effort allowed to identify the relevant topics for the Company and 
Stakeholders, in relation with the five areas of the Decree 254/2016. The materiality matrix update has not 
entailed major changes respect to 2018. 
The Group’s Stakeholders 
Intercos Group has identified its own stakeholders and considers their expectations as extremely important to 
the pursue of its corporate goals. Stakeholders are subjects able to influence or be influenced by the Group’s 
activity. 
To this aim, the following graph maps the principal stakeholders’ categories of Intercos Group. 
   
15 
This Consolidated Disclosure of non-financial information has been translated into English solely for the convenience of the international reader.  In 
case of discrepancies, the Italian language document is the sole authoritative and universally valid version. 