Materiality Analysis 
The materiality analysis was carried out in two main phases: 
•  Identification of the universe of topics aiming at identifying non financial topics potentially relevant, 
according to the five areas of the Decree 254/2016 (environmental, social and employee matters, respect 
for human rights, anti-corruption and bribery matters); 
•  Topics’ prioritization through the evaluation of their relevance according to the Group and the 
stakeholders perspectives.  
 
In order to identify non-financial topics to be evaluated, the following analysis were realized:  
•  benchmark analysis: analysis of the main sustainability topics reported in public reports by clients, 
competitors and comparables;  
•  sustainability trends analysis at global level: mapping of the main non-financial aspects considered 
by the principal stock exchanges that published guidelines for the sustainability report, sustainability 
rating, international organizations and Governments; 
•  sector pressures analysis: mapping of the non-financial aspects highlighted as relevant for the 
cosmetic  sector.  In  particular,  publications  of  principal  industrial  associations  and  international 
organizations were analyzed; 
•  stakeholders mapping: analysis of the key stakeholders and of the sustainability topics most relevant 
for them. 
 
Once that non-financial topics potentially relevant for the Group have been defined, a significance analysis 
has been carried out to finally identify the most important and material topics according to the Company and 
its stakeholders. 
In particular, for what concerns topics’ relevance according to the Company’s perspective, interviews were 
hold in 2019 with the main corporate functions, whom were asked, starting from the 2018 materiality matrix, to 
update every topic importance, taking into consideration their impact on the Company’s capability to create 
value and their potential risks/opportunities related to each aspect. 
The topics’ relevance according to the stakeholders of the Group, on the other hand, was evaluated on the 
basis of results emerged from the analysis above described (benchmark, sector pressures and sustainability 
trends), as assumed to be representative of the main stakeholders’ point of view. 
In both cases, in line with GRI Standards, the prioritization of the topics was done considering their impact on 
both the internal and external perimeters, thus enlarging the analysis along the entire value chain. 
The intersection of the relevance analysis according to Corporate and stakeholders perspective leaded to the 
definition of the material non-financial aspects (see the matrix below), on which the Group’s NFI is focused. 
 
17 
This Consolidated Disclosure of non-financial information has been translated into English solely for the convenience of the international reader.  In 
case of discrepancies, the Italian language document is the sole authoritative and universally valid version. 