The “Clean” Revolution 
As part of the sustainability path undertaken during 2018, Intercos Group has launched in March 2019 
its new Clean Collection, both for the make-up and skin-care segments.  The Clean Collection is 
essentially based on three fundamental pillars that characterize the product supply:  
 
GOOD FOR YOU: Clean Revolution products are based on a clearly defined “clean list”, thus produced 
avoiding the use of any ingredients that might be perceived as controversial and promoting the “less 
is more” philosophy, thus ensuring 100% trust and transparency to end users;  
GOOD FOR  LIFE:  the  Clean  Revolution  products  guarantee  the  respect  for  the  rights  of  the 
communities where the natural materials are sourced, by adopting RSPO and RMI certified palm oil 
and mica, but also by selecting and monitoring suppliers’ ethical performance in terms of safety, 
human rights and compliance with local legislation. In addition, these products are good for wildlife 
and all animals, as they are made 100% vegan and thus cruelty-free from animal testing; 
GOOD FOR THE PLANET: Clean Revolution also means innovating while reducing the Carbon 
Footprint of products and safeguarding the environment. For this reason, “Clean” products will be 
produced by promoting the use of recycled ingredients (for example the by-products from the food 
industry), the reduction of water consumption and the selection of locally-sourced, alternative, 
biodegradable, recycled and/or recyclable packaging materials. 
 
One Ocean 
Created in 2017 thanks to the commitment of the founding member Yacht Club Costa Smeralda, One 
Ocean Foundation aims “to accelerate solutions to ocean issues promoting sustainable blue economy 
and enhancing knowledge through ocean literacy.” One Ocean calls individuals, organizations and 
companies to commit to its goal through the development of specific projects that help safeguard marine 
life. 
The first and most relevant project promoted by the Foundation is the Charta Smeralda: an ethical code 
of conduct to be signed and applied in order to contribute to safe-keep the ocean.  
With  Charta  Smeralda,  One  Ocean  wants  to  take  action  for  the  2030  Agenda  for  Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) approved by the United Nations, in particular for the SDG14 that focuses on 
“life below water” initiatives. 
The principles and commitments specifically related to organizations included in the Charta Smeralda 
are: 
•  managing  the  organization  in  accordance  with  sustainable  development  principles  and 
environmental protection policies; 
•  adopting an environmental policy and implement an environmental plan to minimize impact; 
•  being responsible and transparent through the assessment and monitoring of the environmental 
impact; 
•  adopting a behavior, technologies and solutions that reduce the environmental impact; 
•  collaborating and sharing ideas, innovative solutions and best practices with others; 
•  supporting the scientific community and its initiatives, as well as the collection of data and 
information; 
•  educating, communicating and involving new generations; 
•  promoting awareness, communicating and spreading the Charta Smeralda. 
 
As a world leading company in beauty sector, during 2017 Intercos supported the One Ocean Forum to 
help promoting good practices in the use of marine resources. Starting from 2019, Intercos has become 
one of the main partner of One Ocean Foundation. 
19 
This Consolidated Disclosure of non-financial information has been translated into English solely for the convenience of the international reader.  In 
case of discrepancies, the Italian language document is the sole authoritative and universally valid version. 