Introduction 
 
On  December  the  6th,  2014,  the  Directive  2014/95/EU  (hereinafter  also  “Directive”)  of  the  European 
Parliament and the Council entered into force, regulating the disclosure of non-financial and diversity 
information by certain large undertakings and groups, among which are listed and public interest companies, 
including Intercos Group. The Directive demonstrates the commitment of the EU legislator to contribute to a 
transition towards a global sustainable economy that combines long-term profitability with social justice and 
environmental protection, promoting the valuing of companies that implement transparent management 
policies aimed at improving their sustainability performance. 
In the Italian legislation, the Directive has been transposed by the Legislative Decree n. 254 of December 
the 30th, 2016 (hereinafter the "Decree"), which requires large-scale public interest entities to publish a 
Consolidated Disclosure of Non-financial Information (NFI), containing information on the five main areas of a 
Company’s sustainability performance: environmental, social and employee matters, respect for human rights, 
anti-corruption and bribery matters, in order to provide a complete overview of the company's activities, 
performance, development and impact. For each of these five areas, the Decree requires a description of the 
main risks, the policies practiced and/or formalized by the company, the governance model, and the key 
performance indicators (Art. 3 c.1). 
The Intercos Group, as a large public interest company, is subject to the aforementioned Decree for the 2018 
reporting year. This NFI was prepared to fulfill this legal requirement and to assess the Company’s non-
financial performance in 2018 and, where possible, along past years.  
Reading guide 
Coherently with the requests of the Decree, the present NFI is structured in five chapters (chapters 1-5), one 
for each sustainability area, containing both qualitative and quantitative information:   
•  “Valuing our people” on employee matters;  
•  “Protecting human and labor rights” on respect for human rights,  
•  “Our attention towards the environment” on environmental matters,  
•  “Fighting against corruption and bribery” on anti-corruption and bribery matters; 
•  “Protecting customers’ safety” on social matters. 
 
Each chapter includes the following information, distinguished by a specific color code: 
a brief description of the relevance of the non-financial topics disclosed, following the performance of 
a relevance analysis described in the Methodological note;  
 
a brief description of the policies adopted by the company in relations to each of the five areas;  
 
a description of the governance model adopted by Intercos in relations to each relevant topic;  
 
a description of the key performance indicators that are relevant to ensure a complete understanding 
of the results derived from the implementation of the policies and governance models adopted.  
   
3 
This Consolidated Disclosure of non financial information has been translated into English solely for the convenience of the international 
reader.  In case of discrepancies, the Italian language document is the sole authoritative and universally valid version. 