Legislative 
Decree  Risk  Description of the risk  Management approach 
254/2016 area 
malfunctions or breakages in the  • Adoption of a Corporate Environmental Policy at Group 
treatment systems.  level* 
• Definition of a Global Safety Network, a working group 
formed by HSE responsibles of all Group’s subsidiaries  
• Adoption of an health and safety management system 
OHSAS 18001 in some Group’s sites 
• Adoption of the SA8000 management system for the 
human rights protections and the health and safety 
Risks related to  Specific production activities (for 
within the Chinese sites 
the  example manual handling of 
• Adhesion to the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit 
mismanagement  heavy loads, exposure to 
(SMETA) network for Intercos Europe S.p.a. Cosmint 
of employees’  potentially dangerous chemicals) 
S.p.A., CRB S.A., Intercos America Inc. and Interfila 
health and  may impact on employees’ health 
Cosmetics (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. which allows periodical 
safety   and safety. 
audits with regard to human rights and health and safety 
of employees 
• Adoption of local procedures to correctly manage health 
and safety aspects 
• Adoption of a Corporate Sustainability Policy at Group 
level* 
• Adoption of the SA8000 management system for the 
human rights protections and the health and safety 
Human rights 
The different human rights laws in  within the Chinese sites 
force in the countries where  • Adhesion to the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit 
Risks related to 
Intercos operates could challenge  (SMETA) network for Intercos Europe S.p.a. Cosmint 
non-compliance 
Intercos’ ability to verify that the  S.p.A., CRB S.A., Intercos America Inc. and Interfila 
in terms of 
Group’s standards are equally  Cosmetics (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. which allows periodical 
human rights 
respected by all companies and  audits with regard to human rights and health and safety 
suppliers.  of employees 
• Adoption of a Corporate Sustainability Policy at Group 
level* 
• Adhesion to the Responsible Mica Initiative (RMI), 
organization that promote the transparent traceability of 
The presence of two activities,  the mica extractive process, guaranteeing human rights 
Risks related to 
mica extraction and the  within the areas subjected to such risk 
the violation of 
metallization process, present a  • Adoption of the SA8000 management system for the 
human rights 
high risk of violation of human  human rights protections and the health and safety 
along the value 
and labor' rights along the supply  within the Chinese sites 
chain 
chain.  • Adoption of a Sustainability Policy at Group level* 
• Adoption of a Corporate Sustainable Sourcing Policy at 
Group level* 
• Development of collaborations with schools and 
Because of its B2B business  universities, organization of specialized trainings and 
model, Intercos cannot leverage  promotion of employer branding in order to attract young 
the visibility of its brand, which, as  people and professionals to the cosmetic sector and the 
Risks related to 
it is not directly exposed to the  Group 
the difficulty of 
Workforce  end customer and potential  • Promotion of welfare programs and professional 
attracting 
management  collaborators, might be  development for employees (welfare plans, trainings, 
qualified 
considered not too attractive. For  performance assessments, internal mobility) 
resources 
this reason, Intercos finds some  • Adoption of procedures at Corporate level for the correct 
difficulties in attracting qualified  management of all aspects related to the recruiting 
resources.   processes of resources 
• Adoption of a Sustainability Policy at Group level* 
• Compliance with the European “Cosmetic Regulation" 
Risks related to 
(Regulation EC no. 1223/2009) which norms, inter alia, 
non-compliance  The use of materials/ingredients 
the activities concerning the composition, labeling and 
in terms of  constrained by norms and 
packaging of cosmetic products  
materials/ingred legislations and regulated at the 
• Continuous monitoring of updates regarding the local 
ients  European and international level. 
and regional norms related to product safety 
management 
• Adoption of a Sustainability Policy at Group level* 
Social impacts 
The use of materials/ingredients  • Compliance with the European “Cosmetic Regulation" 
Risks related to  constrained by the customer at  (Regulation EC no. 1223/2009) which norms, inter alia, 
the incorrect  the contractual level in the so- the activities concerning the composition, labeling and 
management of  called black lists, contain  packaging of cosmetic products  
regulated  ingredients/substances that are  • Continuous monitoring of updates regarding the local 
materials/ingred not desired/limited by the  and regional norms related to product safety 
21 
This Consolidated Disclosure of non-financial information has been translated into English solely for the convenience of the international reader.  In 
case of discrepancies, the Italian language document is the sole authoritative and universally valid version. 