1  Integrity and fighting against corruption 
Intercos Group is committed to respecting the highest standards of business conduct, fighting corruption 
in all its forms, both active and passive, and acting to prevent any potential violation of its business 
integrity.  
Intercos expresses its commitment to ensuring the respect of the highest values of business conduct 
within the Code of Conduct. In fact, as described in the following section, the Group practices policies 
based on the principles of integrity and transparency, considered as fundamental ethical values, and 
explicitly condemns any form of corruption, both active and passive. It is also noted that Cosmint S.p.a., 
acquired by Intercos Group on August 3rd, 2017, has adopted an anti-corruption and anti-fraud Policy, 
which expresses the company's commitment to preventing any form of corruption and fraud, in support of 
its values of corporate responsibility.  
Intercos guarantees its legislative compliance with anti-corruption regulations in all the countries in which 
it operates. In Italy, the relevant legislation is the Legislative Decree 231/2001, which regulates the 
administrative  responsibility  of  companies  and  other  entities.  Intercos,  in  Italy,  has  adopted  an 
Organizational Model pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/2001, with the goal of fulfilling its legislative 
requirements but also of improving and increasing the efficiency of existing internal control and corporate 
governance systems. The main objective of the Model is, in fact, to create an organic and structured 
system of principles and control procedures, aimed at preventing the perpetration of the offenses 
envisaged by the Legislative Decree 231/2001, including the crime of corruption, through the information 
and training of employees, the dissemination of a business culture based on legality, the promotion of a 
decision-making process based on transparency and traceability manner and the empowerment of the 
resources dedicated to the making and implementation of these decisions. In compliance with the article 
no. 2 of the Law no. 179 of November 30th, 2017, that modifies article no. 6 of the Legislative Decree 
231/2001, the Model was integrated to include, inter alia, measures to safeguard whistleblowers and, 
more in general, a proper and non-abusive use of whistleblowing channels. 
To this end, all personnel receives an annual compulsory training course with the purpose of ensuring the 
effective knowledge of the Legislative Decree 231/2001, of the Code of Ethics, of the Code of Conduct 
and of the Organizational Model, and therefore also of the principles related to the fight against corruption 
adopted by the Group, by all the company divisions and departments. 
For what concerns the Group's foreign subsidiaries, Intercos S.p.A. has drafted a set of guidelines (the 
“Guidelines”), which contain the principles of organizational and business conduct to which the foreign 
subsidiaries controlled by the Parent company need to adhere, in line with the Organizational Model 
adopted by Intercos pursuant to Legislative Decree no. 231/2001, while also respecting all applicable rules 
at the local level where the subsidiaries are based. 
Furthermore, it is worth mentioning that, in Italy, Cosmint S.p.A., acquired by the Intercos Group in August 
2017, has its own Organizational Model pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/2001 and its own Supervisory 
Body. 
The Guidelines for the foreign subsidiaries of Intercos S.p.A. are thus the reference point for the promotion 
of an ethical and transparent corporate culture. In fact, they attribute to the governing body of each 
subsidiary the power to implement all the necessary measures to apply the principles illustrated in the 
Model, with the aim of preventing any behavior that is not in line with the corporate culture. In particular, 
the Guidelines define the Group’s principles regarding: 
23 
This Consolidated Disclosure of non-financial information has been translated into English solely for the convenience of the international reader.  In 
case of discrepancies, the Italian language document is the sole authoritative and universally valid version. 