 THE ETHICAL CODE AND THE CODE OF CONDUCT 
 
The key values of the Intercos Group are listed in its Code of Ethics: innovation and imagination, 
ambition, passion, flexibility and speed, beauty and the centrality of the customer. With the adoption 
of the Code of Ethics, the Group commits itself to anticipating the future trends in beauty through continuous 
research and the encouragement of creativity, initiative and originality; to exceed customer expectations and, 
finally, to act responsibly, proactively and always driven by enthusiasm, all by looking at the customers and 
their needs as a priority. 
The Code of Ethics also includes the three fundamental ethical values of the Group, namely respect, 
integrity and transparency, which are the basis for the Group’s relations with all stakeholders: customers, 
employees, investors, suppliers, the community, the public administration and finally the environment. 
Finally, the Company makes explicit in the Code of Ethics the values and specific responsibilities that guide 
it in relations with each stakeholder group, thus ensuring a common vision and approach and high standards 
of responsible behavior by the whole Group. 
 
The Code of Conduct clearly expresses the Vision and Mission of Intercos Group: “To be the preferred 
partner of all cosmetic brands. To offer the most innovative and creative products with a competitive 
mindset and the fastest time to market” and “To anticipate the future of beauty with a visionary 
approach, an agile attitude and a commitment to simplicity”. The Code of Conduct, which constitutes an 
integral part of the Organization Model (pursuant to Legislative Decree 231/2001) adopted by the Parent 
Company, is intended to guide Intercos employees and collaborators in their relations with stakeholders, in 
their exercise of corporate values and principles and in pursuing the commitments contained in the Code of 
Ethics. In fact, the Code of Conduct sets out in detail the values and responsibilities that guide the Group in 
its relations with customers, its own people, suppliers, towards the environment and, in general, with those 
who share a legitimate interest in the Company (competitors, shareholders, the finance administration, the 
public administration, trade unions and the community), in all phases of their work. For example, for what 
concerns the company’s responsibilities towards its personnel, the Code of Conduct sets out the norms of 
conduct to be adopted during selection processes, the establishment of the work contract, the management 
of personnel issues including health and safety. The knowledge and observance of the Code of Conduct by 
all Group employees are decisive factors for ensuring innovation, competitiveness, the ability to anticipate 
market developments, quality and value creation. 
 
PRIVACY GUIDELINES  
Intercos, during 2018, has elaborated an update plan of its own Data Protection System in line with 
requirements of General Data Protection Regulation or GDPR (EU Regulation 679/2016) for all the Group 
Societies concerned by this rule. In particular, the Company has adopted a series of specific guidelines with 
regards to personal data protection, among which the “Privacy Guidelines” and the “Data Controller 
Guidelines”, aiming at raising awareness of people authorized to data control and training them on the GDPR 
requirements. 
 
 
25 
This Consolidated Disclosure of non-financial information has been translated into English solely for the convenience of the international reader.  In 
case of discrepancies, the Italian language document is the sole authoritative and universally valid version. 