2  Valuing People 
 
Intercos Group places the utmost attention on the development of its employees and in the attraction of 
new talents, as these represent a fundamental resource for its business success, allowing it to innovate 
and adapt to customer needs. Intercos also promotes diversity (in particular, but not only, gender diversity) 
and values female talents, aiming at a sustainable and inclusive business growth. For what concerns the 
issues related to employees’ health and safety, they are addressed in the chapter “The protection of 
human and workers’ rights.” 
The relevance attributed to development of Intercos’ employees and promotion of diversity is explicitly 
mentioned in the Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct, which are valid at the Group level. Through 
these documents, Intercos underlines the value of human capital and shows the Company’s commitments 
to guaranteeing that all its employees are provided with adequate information and training tools to cultivate 
their specific competences and are offered opportunities for professional growth, as well as a collaborative 
work environment, guaranteeing equal opportunities. 
The Group also practices personnel management procedures that are translated into formalized tools for 
the regulation of the external recruitment and internal mobility processes, in accordance with the company 
principles of equality opportunities and anti-discrimination. 
Our Values 
For Intercos Group, which bases its business on research and development activities, people’s talent, 
skills and development have always been the key elements to enhance the ability to continuously 
innovate and be leader within the cosmetic market. For this reason, Intercos always cares of its 
employees’  personal  and  professional  development.  To  do  so,  through  a  direct  sharing  among 
employees, the Group defined the values and the relative competences to assess people: 
•  Innovation & Imagination: “We are a visionary company that anticipates future trends in beauty. 
We encourage creativity, taking initiative and thinking outside of the box”; 
•  Ambition: “We constantly strive to go above and beyond expectations. This work ethic and 
commitment has made us global leaders and we are always searching for ways to improve on what 
we have accomplished”; 
•  Passion: “Everything we do is driven by enthusiasm. We take accountability for our actions and 
decisions”; 
•  Customer Centricity: “Customers are our first priority. We satisfy their wills and needs and develop 
lasting relationships with them”. 
•  Flexibility & Speed: “We are proactive and quick to respond to situations. Through multitasking and 
troubleshooting we can easily manage complex situations swiftly and neatly”; 
•  Beauty: “Beauty is our cult, our purpose.  In this continuous research, we combine creativity with 
strategy, to embody and anticipate feminine desires”. 
Intercos also promotes specific ethical values that all employees are called to follow during daily working 
management facing stakeholders: 
•  Respect: “We genuinely care about people and are always ready to listen to other opinions. We 
openly consider different points of view and willingly change our perspective if necessary”; 
•  Integrity: “We are honest, straightforward and consistent when dealing with people. We encourage 
fair business practices and have strong moral and ethical principles”; 
•  Transparency: “We are transparent and open. We facilitate access to data and information, as well 
as collaborative and cooperative management and decision-making”. 
 
26 
This Consolidated Disclosure of non-financial information has been translated into English solely for the convenience of the international reader.  In 
case of discrepancies, the Italian language document is the sole authoritative and universally valid version. 