Letter from the President to Intercos Group’s Stakeholders 
 
Dear all, 
Intercos Group presents the “Consolidated Disclosure of Non-Financial Information” for the third consecutive 
year. 
2019 reported data highlight the Group’s progress in the path to sustainability: together with the continuation 
of activities concerning the reconfirmation of plants’ social and environmental certifications worldwide, during 
the year Intercos has defined its own commitments towards the sensitive topics of environmental safeguard 
and social responsibility. 
The Group has further elaborated its own governance methodology to monitor and evaluate the actions 
implemented in accordance with last year’s undertakings: among the most relevant and impactful topics for 
our core business, the education of our employees on their wealth and safety safeguard; the responsible 
supply of raw materials, aimed at passing our values down to the supply chain; the reduction of our plants’ 
environmental impact. With specific reference to this last point, we spot some crucial areas of intervention 
concerning waste management and the reduction of GHG emissions in the atmosphere. 
In particular, I would like to stress Intercos’ undertaking of offering products and technologies that are qualified 
under  both  the  environmental  profile  and  the  ethical  conduct,  characteristics  of  preeminent  strategic 
importance in the cosmetics sector. 
Furthermore, 2019 has witnessed a growing commitment of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries that have worked 
together with the corporate functions, showing an increasing awareness towards sustainable development 
matters and a greater effectiveness regarding non-financial disclosure. 
While presenting the 2019 Declaration, I would like to stress on how such a reporting instrument is important 
for Intercos, particularly in this historical moment, since it provides stakeholders with the opportunity to 
acknowledge the Group’s commitment and results in the field of sustainability. I would like to highlight the fact 
that these results are officially accepted by the main, independent sustainability performance assessment 
entities (Ecovadis, CDP) that incidentally awarded Intercos’ continuous progress in the last years. 
 
 
Agrate B., January 31st, 2019 
 
                 Dario Gianandrea Ferrari 
                President of Intercos Group 
 
 
 
 
4 
This Consolidated Disclosure of non financial information has been translated into English solely for the convenience of the international 
reader.  In case of discrepancies, the Italian language document is the sole authoritative and universally valid version. 