3  Protecting human and labor rights 
 
Ensuring the respect of human and labor rights in the conduction of all business activities is a priority for 
the Group, also considering the fact that it operates in geographical contexts characterized by different 
socio-economic contexts, which are not always aligned to the highest international standards of human 
rights protection. Intercos condemns child and forced labour and commits to ensuring the right to a safe 
and healthy working environment, within the organization as well as along the supply chain. Indeed, 
employees’ and workers’ well-being is not only a moral principle but also the key to all individuals’ and the 
Company’s successful performance. 
 
The Group defines the social and environmental principles and criteria to be applied when selecting and 
qualifying its suppliers in the Policy for Sustainable Procurement (Corporate Policy for Sustainable 
Procurement). With this Policy, Intercos commits to pursue the development of a sustainable supply chain, 
relying on the principles of the international standards SA 8000, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 (now ISO 
45001) for the qualification of suppliers, providing, in particular, the respect for human rights, the fight 
against discrimination, the respect for workers' rights, the protection against child labor and the pledge for 
a safe and healthy working environment. In addition, the Group makes clear its commitment to pursue 
continuous improvement of workplace health and safety conditions in its Health and Safety Policy. 
For what concerns the protection of human and worker rights within the company itself, in the Code of 
Ethics and in the Code of Conduct Intercos declares its commitment to: 
•  promoting throughout the Group the application of the principles established by the international 
standard SA 8000 on the respect for human and labor rights, the protection against the exploitation of 
minors and the need to guarantee safety and well-being in the workplace; 
•  safeguarding the physical and moral integrity of Intercos’ people by ensuring a healthy and safe, 
serene and motivating work environment; 
•  consolidating a culture of safety through awareness, information and training programs and the 
involvement and empowerment of workers and anyone participating in the company activities, at all 
levels; 
•  seeking the continuous improvement of health and safety performance through objectives and targets 
that are periodically reviewed. 
 
Through these documents, Intercos thus expresses its responsibility to ensure a socially responsible 
behavior and the respect of its ethical principles not only within the company, but also along the supply 
chain. To this end, the company requires its suppliers to sign, together with the signing of the commercial 
contract, the Group's Codes of Ethics and Conduct. 
 
36 
This Consolidated Disclosure of non-financial information has been translated into English solely for the convenience of the international reader.  In 
case of discrepancies, the Italian language document is the sole authoritative and universally valid version. 