The protection of human and labor rights within the company 
In terms of human and labor rights, Intercos commits to carrying out its business activities in compliance 
with the legislation in force in the countries in which it operates and in line with the main international 
standards. 
As regards the aspects related to the health and safety of workers, with the aim of improving performance 
at Group level on these aspects, the Global Safety Network continued to meet periodically during 2019, 
in order to monitor common indicators (Total Incident Rate - TIR) and develop shared procedures. 
Therefore, Intercos adopts suitable safety systems with the aim of assessing the importance of the impacts 
and risks associated with production activities and, with regard to the activities related to the physical 
security of production sites, of guaranteeing the protection of industrial sites and people (workers and 
visitors). To this aim, safety education programs for workers and updating programs for safety operators 
are defined and implemented. In this regard, it should be noted that during 2019 a total of approximately 
17,117 training hours were provided at Group level. 
In Italy, Intercos complies with the applicable European and national legislation on health and safety 
management in the workplace, i.e. Legislative Decree 81/2008 (and subsequent updates). As required by 
the Decree, the company carries out a periodic analysis of the risks related to the production activities and 
of  the  preventive/protection  measures  implemented;  drafts  a  Risk  Assessment  Document  that  is 
periodically revised and updated by multi-stakeholder group composed by the Employer, the Executives, 
the Prevention and Protection Service, a competent doctor, external consultants and the workers' 
representatives. Among the initiatives carried out in 2019, the installation of an automatic distributor of 
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) at the Dovera site should be noted. 
In addition, the companies Intercos Europe S.p.A., Cosmint S.p.A., CRB S.A., Intercos America Inc. and 
Interfila Cosmetics (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. have joined the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) 
network, and are therefore subject to audit in order to guarantee compliance with all the requirements 
regarding human and workers' rights (in particular, the absence of episodes of child labor and forced labor, 
the respect of working hours and minimum wages, the freedom of association, as well as the compliance 
with adequate hygiene and health requirements). It should also be noted that Cosmint S.p.A. at the end 
of 2018 obtained the ISO 45001 certification certifying the adequate management of health and safety in 
the workplace. 
In China, a country characterized by greater regulatory flexibility, Intercos has started a process to ensure 
the application in its local branches of the highest international standards in regards to the respect for 
human rights and labor rights. To date, the company Interfila Cosmetics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd owns the 
OHSAS 18001 certification, which attests to an adequate management of health and safety in the 
workplace. In addition, Interfila Cosmetics (Shanghai) Co., together with Intercos Technology (SIP) Co. 
Ltd. and Intercos Cosmetics (Suzhou) Co., have obtained the SA8000 certification, which attests to their 
compliance with the main international standards on human rights (child labor, forced labor and retribution) 
and on health and safety in the workplace. 
In Italy and China, the two countries where the Group is primarily present, the Company constantly 
monitors human rights through specific initiatives (Adhesion to Sedex Network) and the adoption of 
dedicated management systems (SA 8000). Furthermore, Intercos continuously supervises such aspects 
through periodical audits (SMETA audits in Italy and SA8000-requirements compliant audits in China). 
Intercos also carries out continuous monitoring of these aspects through periodic audits (SMETA audits 
in Italy, Switzerland, America and China and SA 8000 requirement audits in China). 
 
 
 
37 
This Consolidated Disclosure of non-financial information has been translated into English solely for the convenience of the international reader.  In 
case of discrepancies, the Italian language document is the sole authoritative and universally valid version. 