4  Our attention towards the environment 
 
For what concerns environmental issues, Intercos Group generates, in carrying out its production processes, 
impacts that are mainly linked to the procurement of raw materials and waste disposal (ยง Procurement and 
disposal process), to air pollutant and climate-change emissions (ยง Fight against climate change) and the 
management of water supply and discharges (ยง Management of water resources).          
The Group adopts a Corporate Environmental Policy committing to reduce its air pollutant and climate-
change emissions and waste, and to improve water consumption efficiency. This commitment is confirmed 
within the Corporate Policy for Sustainable Procurement, applicable at Group level and adopted in 
January 2018, in which Intercos undertakes to pursue the development of a sustainable supply chain, 
based on evaluation of new and current suppliers also based on environmental criteria, according to the 
principles of the international standard ISO 14001. 
At the local level, the Group is equipped with resources and tools that allow for the correct management 
of environmental issues, in line with the applicable regulatory framework. In particular, Intercos Europe 
S.p.A has adopted an Environmental Policy that expresses the company's commitment to mitigating the 
environmental  impacts  associated  with  its  production  activities.  This  policy  is  the  basis  of  the 
environmental system that has allowed the production sites of Dovera and Agrate to maintain during 2019 
the certification ISO 14001:2015, which guarantees an adequate management and continuous monitoring 
of environmental aspects and performance. Furthermore, the production sites of Olgiate Comasco 
(Cosmint S.p.A.) and Interfila Cosmetics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. maintained the ISO 14001:2015 certification 
in  2019.  The  three  production  sites  of  Suzhou  (Intercos  Cosmetics  (Suzhou)  Co.,  Ltd.,  Intercos 
Technology (SIP) Co., Ltd.) obtained their certification in 2019. 
In 2019, a fine of Euro 34,000 has been imposed at the conclusion of a penal procedure concerning the 
violation  of the regulatory provisions  on the management of hazardous  waste in the absence  of 
authorization. However, it should be noted that there are no cases of non-compliance with environmental 
legislation in the two-year period 2017-2018. 
For what concerns the management of the individual relevant environmental aspects, the following paragraphs 
illustrate the main risks, the management models adopted at the local level and the main performance 
indicators.  
   
40 
This Consolidated Disclosure of non-financial information has been translated into English solely for the convenience of the international reader.  In 
case of discrepancies, the Italian language document is the sole authoritative and universally valid version. 