The fight against climate change and air pollutant emissions 
In order to guarantee the continuity of its business, the Intercos Group considers it essential to meet the 
needs of its customers and to comply with the applicable legislation on the protection of air quality and 
the reduction of phenomena related to climate change, aware of the fact that, as a manufacturing 
company, it carries out production activities that could generate significant environmental pressures 
associated with energy consumption and, consequently, the emission of air pollutants and climate-
changing substances into the atmosphere. 
For  what  concerns  the  management  of  energy  consumption  and  pollutant  and  climate-changing 
emissions, there is no centralized model to date, and the choice of the adequate operational procedures 
for the management of these environmental aspects is left to the individual companies / plants. 
In compliance with the provisions of the Legislative Decree No. 102/2014, during 2019 Intercos Europe 
S.p.A. prepared an "Energy Efficiency Report" for the production plants of Agrate and Dovera in order to 
describe  the  company's  energy  system  and  consumption  and  to  define  possible  improvement 
interventions in terms of energy efficiency, quantifying the resulting savings. Furthermore, the company 
has adopted specific procedures for the management of air pollutant emissions into the atmosphere and 
greenhouse gases, which are based on the provisions of the binding Italian and national European 
legislation. In 2016 and 2017, the Agrate plant purchased 100% of energy certified as coming from 
renewable sources. Furthermore, aiming at improving energy efficiency and reducing greenhouse gas 
emissions, the installation of a trigeneration system was completed and started at the Dovera site in fall 
2019, with photovoltaic panels. Other initiatives have been put in place, such as the one about the 
renovation of Agrate and Dovera sites’ lighting systems, with the progressive replacement of incandescent 
bulbs with LED bulbs, with a consequent reduction in annual electricity consumption. 
In a similar way, between 2018 and 2019 Cosmint S.p.A. in Olgate Comasco installed a cogeneration 
system, already functioning in 2019, and a photovoltaic system, installed on the roof of a new warehouse 
and that will be fully operating in 2020. 
Since many years, Intercos Group, has undertaken, also in foreign subsidiaries, a path to improve energy 
efficiency within its plants. 
In the United States, Intercos America Inc. reduced internal energy consumption by distributing production 
over four working days and improved its environmental performance by procuring, in West Nyack plant, 
almost 50% solar energy using installed photovoltaic panels on the roof of the building. In China, Intercos 
Technology Co. Ltd, since 2017, started a process of energy efficiency by replacing incandescent bulbs 
with LED bulbs, optimizing the bulk mixing process and monitoring the energy consumption related to air 
conditioning. 
In terms of atmospheric emissions, the HSE function, supported by the RSPP, identifies and analyses the 
emission points, classifies the pollutants emitted and keeps un updated census on the type and the 
characteristics of the emission points identified within the production process. The monitoring activity is 
carried out through specific studies, carried out by qualified third-party laboratories, aimed at ensuring 
compliance with the limits set by the current legislation and at ensuring the efficiency of the abatement 
systems. The HSE manager examines the results of the analyses and, if necessary, implements 
appropriate improvement interventions. The Technical Services manager selects the type of devices used 
for the abatement of the fumes and coordinates its periodic maintenance. 
For what concerns the management of fluorinated gases, substances that contribute to the greenhouse 
effect and that are present in refrigeration and air conditioning equipment, the Technical Services and 
Maintenance functions ensure compliance with the relevant regulatory obligations in order to prevent any 
gas leaks and ensure the timely intervention of qualified third parties in case of anomalies. These functions 
provide for the census of the plants and equipment and, as required by the European Regulation 
517/2014, for their periodic maintenance with a frequency that varies according to the amount of CO  
2
equivalent to the gas contained in them. In addition, the Technical Services and Maintenance functions 
ensure that company personnel intervening on the equipment is adequately trained through specific 
46 
This Consolidated Disclosure of non-financial information has been translated into English solely for the convenience of the international reader.  In 
case of discrepancies, the Italian language document is the sole authoritative and universally valid version. 