5  Protecting consumers’ safety 
 
Intercos guarantees the highest standards of hygiene and quality in all of its operations and activities, in 
order to protect the health and safety of the final consumers because, although not directly involved in the 
final choice of products’ formulation, it is nevertheless responsible for their production process for 
realization. In order to protect the final consumer, the Group also considers it essential to guarantee the 
disclosure of complete and correct information to its B2B customers, through both marketing and labelling.  
 
Within the Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct, Intercos describes its principles and values that are at 
the basis of its relations with all main stakeholders. As described in the following section, the Group 
practices policies that demonstrate its commitment to ensuring high quality standards for all its products 
and to adopting appropriate communication tools to inform the communities about the impacts deriving 
from its business. 
 
To prevent any risk related to product safety, Intercos guarantees full compliance with applicable laws in 
all countries where it operates. For what concerns the cosmetics industry, the development, production 
and marketing of cosmetic products are normed by a particularly rigorous regulatory framework, guided 
at European level by Regulation (EC) no. 1223/2009 the "Cosmetic Regulation" which norms, inter alia, 
the activities concerning the composition, labeling and packaging of cosmetic products in order to facilitate 
their free circulation in the internal market of the European Union, as well as the criteria for safety 
assessment, in order to ensure greater protection of consumer health and safety. Non-clinical studies on 
the safety of cosmetic products are conducted, where applicable, in accordance with the principles of 
good laboratory practice pursuant to Legislative Decree no. 50 of March 2, 2007 (Directives 2004/9 / EC 
and 2004/10 / CE). 
Although Intercos is not directly responsible, in legal terms, for the impact of the products on the final 
consumer, the company is still required to guarantee compliance with the restrictions imposed by current 
regulations, as well as with customer blacklists in ingredient selection and formulation processes. 
Consumers protection, from products formulation to their production and packaging 
Intercos pays particular attention to the protection of consumers in all phases of the production process, 
from the selection of the raw materials to the formulation of the products, from their production to their 
packaging. 
 
The selection of the ingredients is performed in compliance with both current regulations high quality 
standards. In addition, the company is committed to respecting the requests of its customers, who 
communicate any ingredients that they wish to avoid, in line with their own specific policies. 
 
In order to be selected and purchased, all the raw materials offered by the suppliers are accompanied by 
an extensive documentation aimed at guaranteeing their technical characteristics, quality and safety. In 
particular, this documentation includes: the material safety data sheet, the technical information sheet, 
details on the composition of the substance, the certificate of origin, the declaration of conformity to the 
REACH regulation, as well as specific information related to the type of material (for example, the 
declaration of purity for pigments, the declaration of absence of asbestos for talc, etc.). The new raw 
materials, before they can be codified and used in the production process, must be tested in the laboratory 
and approved. 
During the formulation process and before production at scale, all products are subject to a series of tests, 
depending on the category they belong to and the specific tests requested by the customer: 
 
•  Stability test: it is performed on all new cosmetics and cosmetic products subject to change; it assesses 
how the quality of the product varies with time under the influence of a number of environmental factors 
52 
This Consolidated Disclosure of non-financial information has been translated into English solely for the convenience of the international reader.  In 
case of discrepancies, the Italian language document is the sole authoritative and universally valid version. 