(for example, temperature, humidity and light), in order to establish the shelf life of the product and 
collect the information required to get the Authorization for Product Release in the different export 
regions; 
•  Challenge test: where applicable, it is carried out according to the ISO approach following a preliminary 
positive evaluation of the product’s stability (after about one month); it evaluates the antimicrobial 
efficacy of the preservatives; 
•  Patch test: it is performed to test any product’s irritation effects on the skin; 
•  Microbiological in use test:  it is performed on certain product categories, where applicable and 
possibly upon customer request, to determine the microbiological stability of the product if its use 
includes an application that can contribute to the potential growth of bacteria; 
•  Ophthalmologic use test: it is performed on products intended for the eye area, in particular mascara, 
eyeliner and kajal; 
•  Dermatological use test: it is performed to test facial and lips products, where applicable and/or upon 
customer request; 
•  Test for determining the sun protection factor, carried out on products that contain sunrays filters and 
when the client wants to declare a sun protection factor for the product (both UVB and UVA). 
 
Depending on the claims that the customer wants to make on the product, specific tests and studies are 
carried out to support them. 
 
Consumer protection through correct products information 
In order to guarantee and document that the products complies with the requirements of European and 
international applicable legislations in terms of composition, safety and stability, the Regulatory Affairs 
Office, which is centralized at Group level, is responsible for the collection and evaluation of all data on 
the conformity of raw materials and cosmetic products with respect to current legislation, as well as for the 
preparation of the technical documentation necessary for the customers to sell the products and to 
respond to potential requests from the authorities. The Regulatory Affairs Office, in fact, prepares the PIF 
(Product Information File), which is a collection of all the technical information available about the product 
and consists of the following main documents: quali-quantitative information on the formulation and 
ingredients, product specifications (bulk), specifications of raw materials, processing procedures, stability 
/ compatibility results, safety tests results (including patch tests, challenge tests, microbiological in use 
test if necessary, ophthalmologic use tests if necessary), product safety assessment (CPSR - Cosmetic 
Product Safety Report) and finally all the tests that support particular claims (for example the test results 
for the determination of the sun protection factor, if necessary). 
 
Product safety is strictly connected to product quality. As a demonstration of the primary importance given 
by the Intercos Group to ensuring product quality through its business development strategies, the 
company has adopted a Corporate Quality Management System (CQMS) for the unitary management of 
the quality system for all companies in the Group. In addition, the following companies have received the 
ISO 9001 certification on quality management along the production cycle: Intercos S.p.A. and Intercos 
Europe S.p.A in Italy; C.R.B. S.A in Switzerland, Intercos America Inc. in the USA, Intercos Technology 
Co. Ltd, Intercos Cosmetics Co. Ltd, Intercos Technology (SIP) Co. Ltd and Interfila Cosmetics (Shanghai) 
Co. Ltd. in China. 
Finally, the following companies have received the ISO 22716 certification on compliance with Good 
Manufacturing Practices for the cosmetics industry: Intercos Europe S.p.A and Cosmint S.p.A in Italy, 
C.R.B. S.A in Switzerland, Intercos America Inc. in the USA and Interfila Cosmetics (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 
in China. 
   
53 
This Consolidated Disclosure of non-financial information has been translated into English solely for the convenience of the international reader.  In 
case of discrepancies, the Italian language document is the sole authoritative and universally valid version. 