Methodological note 
Intercos Group’s Consolidated Disclosure of Non-financial Information has been prepared in accordance with 
the Legislative Decree 254/2016 and subsequent amendments regarding the disclosure of non-financial and 
diversity information by certain large undertakings and public-interest entities. The purpose of this document 
is to ensure a complete understanding of the company’s business model, policies, main risks and key 
performance indicators on environmental, social and employee matters, respect for human rights, anti-
corruption and bribery matters that are relevant considering the Group’s activities and characteristics. 
The Board of Directors of Intercos S.p.A. has approved this NFI on February 10th, 2020. In addition, this 
document has been subject to limited assurance by EY S.p.A. in accordance with the International Standard 
on Assurance Engagement (ISAE 3000 Revised). 
Reporting scope and standard 
The reporting scope, in accordance with the requests of the Decree, coincides with the scope of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements, i.e. includes all companies consolidated line-by-line in the financial 
reporting, with the exception of some indicators for which the limitations of the reporting perimeter are reported 
directly in the text. 
This document is prepared annually and all information and data here disclosed refer to FY 2019. Performance 
indicators and information have been gathered on a yearly basis (January-December) for 2017, 2018 and 
2019. This document represents the third edition of the Intercos Group’s NFI. 
Within the document, where necessary, some specific notes have been added to explain any change in 2017 
and 2018 performance data. 
 
The reporting standard adopted by Intercos for the preparation of its NFI is the GRI Sustainability Reporting 
Standards (hereinafter also GRI Standards), published in 2016 by the GRI - Global Reporting Initiative. In 
particular, according to the provisions of the Standard GRI 101: Foundation, paragraph 3, a reference to the 
Reporting Standards disclosed is made in the following Content Index according to a "GRI-core" approach. 
 
For a better clarification, the following table reports material topics related to the Legislative Decree 254/2016 
areas, the disclosure boundary and its limitations.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
55 
This Consolidated Disclosure of non-financial information has been translated into English solely for the convenience of the international reader.  In 
case of discrepancies, the Italian language document is the sole authoritative and universally valid version. 