•  for environmental data, if not available, conservative estimations have been performed, choosing 
hypotheses associated with the least positive environmental performance for the company; 
•  the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions has been carried out according to the principles of the 
international standard ISO 14064-1. 
•  the emission factors used to calculate the CO  emissions reported in this NFI are as follows: 
2
- Direct scope 1 emissions: for the heating of the offices and plants with natural gas and for the fuel 
used by the company owned cars, the emission factor taken into account was taken from the table of 
national standard parameters (valid for the calculation of emissions from January 1st, 2018 to 
December 31st, 2018) published by the Ministry for the Environment and Protection of the Territory 
and the Sea. For the refrigerant gas losses of the air conditioners, the emission factors are derived 
from the UK Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (Defra) database for the years 2017, 
2018 and 2019. 
- Energetic indirect scope 2 emissions: for electricity purchased from the national electricity grid, 
for the location-based approach, the emission factor was taken from Terna's international comparisons 
on Enerdata data - 2016 data. Regarding the market-based approach, emission factors refer to the 
Residual Mix published by the “Association of Issuing Bodies” (AIB) in 2018 for the European 
countries. In USA, emission factors refer to the “Center for Resource Solutions” (“2019 Green-e 
Energy Residual Mix Emissions Rates”). As requested by the GRI Standards, for all Countries without 
accredited  residual  mixes,  the  location-based  factors  were  applied.  Finally,  for  the  emissions 
connected to the purchase of heat, the emission factors refer to Defra database for the years 2017, 
2018 and 2019. 
   
57 
This Consolidated Disclosure of non-financial information has been translated into English solely for the convenience of the international reader.  In 
case of discrepancies, the Italian language document is the sole authoritative and universally valid version. 