10 ASPIAG SERVICE  •  2019 INTEGRATED REPORT
Identity and
operating context
Aspiag Service pursues its business against a backdrop characterised by different 
trends, formats, and needs, ranking among the leading players in its trading area 
thanks to its focused and far-sighted decisions.
The market
+1.4% +0.2% 45
SALES IN ITALY’S MODERN  ITALY’S GDP GROWTH  POTENTIAL COMPETITORS
RETAIL INDUSTRY  (source: Istat)
(source: Istat)
In 2019, the euro area’s growth was estimated at +1.2%  to  2018,  whereas  their  smaller  counterparts  faced 
(source: ECB) and saw a slowdown in the first half of  increased competitive pressures and were down 0.7% 
the year due to international trade tensions as well as  year-on-year. Among large retailers, the best perform-
Brexit-related  developments.  Markets  subsequently  ers were discount stores (+4.5%), followed by non-food 
stabilised, which had a positive impact on the fourth  stores  (+1.8%)  and  supermarkets  (+0.8%),  whereas 
quarter of the year. hypermarkets continued declining with a 0.9% con-
Italy’s GDP rose by 0.2% (source: Istat), weighed down  traction compared to 2018 (source: Istat).
by political instability. With respect to domestic eco- In 2019, the market still comprised several regional 
nomic  activity,  domestic  demand  showed  feeble  entities and franchise chains, resulting in high local 
growth, businesses significantly reduced their inven- saturation (source: Mediobanca). 
tories, and international trade made a positive con- However, Nielsen believes that business combinations 
tribution. Against this backdrop, retail sales were up  are not enough to win in the marketplace and that 
0.8% year-on-year in terms of both value and volume  the focus should be on the store as an innovative and 
(source: Istat). This was driven by the diversified local  distinguishing feature of the brand, with offerings tai-
nature of retail operations (source: Istat). Italy’s south- lored to consumer needs. 
ern regions made a difference in 2019 following the  Recent food trends continued, but they are not the 
modernisation of distribution channels and the mea- only issue market players have to deal with: new tech-
sures taken by recent Governments to support house- nologies, environmental and social sustainability, and 
hold incomes. multichannel retailing represent other current chal-
Large  retailers  reported  +1.4%  growth  compared  lenges that they must address.