ABOUT US  •  WHAT WE DO  •  WHAT WE DID  •  WHAT WE WILL DO  •  ANNEXES 15
SPAR International
Internationally, the SPAR brand is managed by SPAR International, with offices in 48 countries and headquartered 
in Amsterdam. SPAR International is based on values that combine an international outlook with quality and ser-
vices close to several local communities.
SPAR International also boasts a robust sustainable strategy. In 2019, the SPAR Better Choices – Nutrition Guidance 
Strategy stressed the importance of healthy food education through the disclosure of comprehensive information 
on quality products, healthy habits, community programmes, children’s education, food waste, and nutrition cam-
paigns. The project involved both private label and branded products and was communicated directly inside the 
stores. The Responsible Retailing Forum, a project that involves several SPAR countries around the world to coordi-
nate sustainability best practices, is now in its second edition.
+ + +
5.4% 2.6% = 0.2%
€ 35.8 bn 13,112 48 7,441,838 sq. m
Turnover Retail stores SPAR countries  Sales area
worldwide
*2018 information
Despar Italia
In Italy, the Despar brand is managed by 7 different independent members, the largest of which is Aspiag Service, 
united in the Consorzio a Responsabilità Limitata Despar Italia (a limited liability consortium), located in Casalecchio 
di Reno (province of Bologna). Members only operate their businesses in a pre-established geographical area, within 
which they hold a licence to use the Despar brand and manage their distribution centres and retail stores in the 
area. The Despar Italia consortium protects the brand, direct contact with SPAR International and the development 
of the private label products and promotions.
Despar Italia pursues several sustainability projects focused on product innovation as well as social and environ-
mental issues. These projects included making recipes healthier in collaboration with the University of Parma, 
supporting world-class local products, replacing the plastic packaging of organic salads with a compostable 
material, and sponsoring the initiatives of certain local communities.
€ 3.6 bn 1,240 757,774 
sq. m
Turnover Retail stores Sales area