16 ASPIAG SERVICE  •  2019 INTEGRATED REPORT
Governance
The corporate governance system—aligned with both national and international 
best practices—is constantly strengthened in order to manage the complexity of the 
situations in which the Company operates and the challenges to be faced to implement 
a clear and sustainable development strategy.
Shareholders’ Meeting and Board of Directors 
The Shareholders’ Meeting, chaired by the Chair of  has not increased the cost of the corporate structure, 
the Board of Directors (Board) or by another person  given that the Directors receive no payment for the 
appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting itself by a  role they hold. The Board approves and supervises the 
simple majority, heads the governance structure. economic and financial planning of business opera-
The Board carries out its duties for both the ordinary and  tions through the Management Committee.
extraordinary management according to the law, the  In order to facilitate relations with local institutions and 
Company’s Articles of Association and Organisational  new areas of development, the Board meets in differ-
Model 231/01. Appointing several Managing Directors  ent locations in our trading area.
Board of Statutory Auditors and Independent Auditor
The  Shareholders  appoint  the  Board  of  Statutory 
Auditors and the Independent Auditor with the role 
of supervising the Company’s operation and its struc-
ture. The Board of Statutory Auditors, as well as having 
management control functions, has a term of office  The meetings in 2019
of three financial years and supervises compliance 
with the law, the Company’s Articles of Association 
1 Marketing meeting   
and the correctness of the management methods 
9 Retroplanning 
adopted, with particular focus on the organisational, 
management and accounting structure. With regard   10 Sales Committee  
to accounting control, Aspiag Service appointed EY  20 Executive coordination   
S.p.A. as independent auditor, also with a term of  5 Management meeting 
three financial years expiring with the approval of the 
5 Board of Statutory Auditors   
2021 financial statements.
18 Management Committee 
1 Meeting between the Independent
Auditor and the Board  
of Statutory Auditors
The Board is composed of:
 8 members, of which:
5 executives including 
the Chair. 
5 itinerant meetings 
 of the Board in 2019