18 ASPIAG SERVICE  •  2019 INTEGRATED REPORT
Management Committee and Legal Representatives
The Management Committee consists of a variable  ◆ it informs the Board on the Company’s performance 
number of members; the Chair of the Board and all the  during the financial year underway, reporting on any 
Managing Directors are part of it by right.  variations with respect to the budget and the previous
The  Committee  has  propositional  and  preparatory  period. 
responsibilities and the task of providing technical and 
managerial support to the Board of Directors: These  stages  require  a  continuous  and  effective 
communication among the various Company man-
◆ annually by November, it prepares the Company’s  agement teams, which allows them to rapidly moni-
budget proposal for the following financial year. The  tor the performance of corporate management and 
budget is updated usually half way through the year  investment  decisions.  The  Board  is  supported  by 
and in October forecasts are prepared that include  and appoints Legal Representatives. In 2019, Aspiag 
implementation of any corrections deemed appropri- Service relied on 58 Legal Representatives with powers 
ate by the Management; for the ordinary and extraordinary management of the 
◆ it formulates a three-year business plan, which is  Company in accordance with the duties delegated to 
approved by the Board in February; them. Some of the Legal Representatives may appoint 
others ad acta or ad negotia with a limited mandate.
Privacy 
The group project with SPAR Austria to comply with  Head of Human Resources and Legal Affairs. 
the new General Data Protection Regulation, which  The latter is supported by the Legal Affairs office, the 
became effective on 25/05/2018 (Reg. (EU) 2016/679 or  DPO and the Privacy Committee—of which he is a 
GPDR, for short), was completed in 2018. The Company  member along with the heads of IT and Marketing as 
has appointed an external Data Protection Officer, who  well as a Director.
works together with the Data Protection Head—i.e. the 
Between 30  Over 
Men Women Total and 50 years old 50 years old
GRI
Board of Directors 8 0 8 0 8
405 - 1
Board of Statutory Auditors 5 0 5 2 3
Management Committee 4 0 4 0 4
Legal Representatives 51 7 58 31 27
Supervisory Body 2 0 2 1 1
Privacy committee 4 0 4 0 4
Voluntary compliance 
Compliance is crucial for companies, especially if they  the voluntary food quality audits in accordance with 
are large or engage in activities subject to multiple  HACCP* systems characterise the high level of perfor-
rules.Besides regulatory compliance, Aspiag Service  mance of the services and products offered. Starting 
has voluntarily put several auditing tools in place to  from 2020, these different systems will be coordi-
ensure quality and safety. nated  by  a  single  department  responsible  for  all 
The ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 systems as well as  Safety-related issues.
HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points): is a protocol aimed at preventing food contamination and is 
based on the monitoring of those food processing phases which may entail a biological, chemical or physical hazard.