ABOUT US  •  WHAT WE DO  •  WHAT WE DID  •  WHAT WE WILL DO  •  ANNEXES 19
Organisational Model 231/01
Since 2005, Aspiag Service has voluntarily adopted an  management tools. The Model, especially as far as the 
Organisation, Management and Control Model pre- Code of Ethics is concerned, has paved the way for 
pared in accordance with Italian Legislative Decree  the best practices that the Company has been imple-
231/2001* and updated pursuant to Italian Law 3/2019  menting for some time now, and goes towards the 
as well as Legislative Decree 124/2019, which intro- UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which 
duced the criminal offences of illicit traffic of influ- Aspiag Service uses as a reference (see page 33). At 31  GRI
ence and fraudulent billing. The Model encompasses  December 2019, as in the previous two years, no law-
206 - 1
the Supervisory Body, the Code of Ethics, the Internal  suits or other types of proceedings concerning anti-
Regulations  and  Mapping  of  Powers,  the  Protocol  competitive practices or antitrust or monopoly viola-
Manual and the Penalty System, which represent risk tions had been initiated against the Company.
 
THE SUPERVISORY BODY – COMPLIANCE OFFICE
The Compliance Office acts as Supervisory Body, regulating corporate liability for unlawful administrative acts 
connected with offences. The Body is composed of an internal and external member pursuant to Italian Legislative 
Decree 231/01 and is appointed by the Board of Directors every two years. The Compliance Officer oversees the 
operation and effectiveness of, as well as compliance with, the Model. The C.O. shall also adjust the Model accord-
ing to the Company’s operations and potential regulatory changes, reporting any problems on a regular basis, 
making preparations for the annual audits, and training employees on the Model. 84 employees received training 
GRI
in 2019. With respect to updates or crime prevention efforts, the C.O. may perform risk assessments for individual 
areas or operations at risk. 205 - 2
Aspiag Service’s employees can report any criminal offences or request information through the specific e-mail 
address of the Supervisory Body: co_aspiagservice@despar.it.
CODE OF ETHICS www.despar.it/it/node/17/codice-etico/
The Code of Ethics sets out the rights, duties and responsibilities of any party, establishing the principles of trans-
parency, fairness, protection of Shareholders and creditors, and the professional ethics of Aspiag Service, which 
guide the Company as well as represent contractual prerequisites for working or dealing with Aspiag Service. 
Compliance with the Code of Ethics by all parties (Directors, Legal Representatives, employees, Auditors, suppliers, 
etc.) ensures the regularity of Company operations, as well as prevents any irregularities and conflicts of interests. 
In line with the principles set out in the Code of Ethics, the Company does not offer direct or indirect contribu- GRI
tions, in any whatsoever form, to parties, movements, political and trade union organisations and committees, 
415 - 1
their members and candidates, unless permitted by specific regulations and in compliance with the principle of 
transparency.
INTERNAL REGULATIONS AND MAPPING OF POWERS
The Internal Regulations and Mapping of Powers govern the operations of the bodies vested with powers of man-
agement and representation. They are distributed to new hires and made available through all company bulletin 
boards as well as the portal.
PROTOCOL MANUAL
The Protocol Manual plans the Company’s decision-making process regarding activities that involve the potential 
risk of unlawful acts and monitors, under the supervision of the Compliance Office, the various functions in charge 
of sensitive activities.
PENALTY SYSTEM
The Penalty System monitors compliance with the Model, procedures and conduct. The violation of the obliga-
tions described therein always constitutes a violation of terms of contract and disciplinary offence from which the 
Company does not intend to pursue any advantage.
Italian Legislative Decree 231/01: Legislative Decree of 8 June 2001 introduced a system of administrative liability 
for companies, that is actually a system of criminal liability, for crimes against the Public Administration (corruption, 
bribery, etc.) or corporate crimes (e.g., false accounting) committed by employees, executives or directors in the 
interest or for the benefit of their companies.