22 ASPIAG SERVICE  •  2019 INTEGRATED REPORT
Business model
Our Business Model encompasses the various phases of the distribution system, 
relationships with stakeholders, as well as the relevant risks and opportunities.
Aspiag Service manages supermarkets with a purely  The balanced and efficient operation of Governance 
food-based vocation and purchases fast-moving con- bodies  and  the  distribution  system  drives  the 
sumer goods (both branded and non-branded prod- Company’s  mission,  balancing  the  expectations  of 
ucts) from suppliers to resell them at its stores and to  shareholders and the other Stakeholders, the planning 
franchisees. To provide the utmost value to custom- and fulfilment of strategic goals, Stakeholder mon-
ers, we work with diversified suppliers that meet high  itoring, the maximisation of opportunities, and risk 
quality standards.  mitigation.
Supply chain
Aspiag  Service  maintains  its  market  position  also  The supply chain generates synergies between the 
thanks to the sound management of the supply chain,  Company’s  employees  and  suppliers,  curbs  costs, 
which encompasses all phases—from the selection  reduces environmental impacts, and offers customers 
of suppliers to procurement, and from distribution  guarantees with respect to the quality of the process-
to retail sales—allowing the Company to effectively  ing and transportation of products.
achieve its own goals as well as those of stakeholders.
Purchases
Suppliers are selected according to a customer-ori- as a profit centre from the bargaining phase to shelf 
ented approach, pursuing quality products, competi- allocation, maximising the performance and margin of 
tive prices and transparency in relationships. the items. In 2019 the new Quality Department became 
Procurement management is supported by processes  operational. It audits suppliers and platforms as well 
that help sharing information between the Company  as assesses compliance with regulatory requirements 
and the supplier, which streamline the flow between  concerning manufacturing and the quality of products 
purchase orders and delivery of products to the retail  and deliveries received from suppliers. Audits at retail 
store. To take advantage of reduced waiting times,  stores are carried out by the Food Safety function. The 
greater programmability of supplies and delivery dis- Quality Control function analysed 176 fruit and vege-
counts, we concentrate purchases by means of ESD  tables items during 2019. Compliance audits for the 
Italia,  a  central  purchasing*  and  marketing  group  sale of organic products in bulk were also carried out 
which negotiates supply contracts with domestic con- directly at the platform level by the certification body. 
sumer goods industries on behalf of its shareholders.  This year, at the Top Fresh Retailer awards hosted by 
At Aspiag Service, we offer the items on sale in catego- Fruitbook Magazine, Aspiag Service was rated as the 
ries that consumers perceive as correlated or replace- best Group in Italy’s North-east by fruit and vegetable 
able.Categories are managed by category managers  suppliers. 
Central purchasing group: a central purchasing group is an organisation that handles the supply contract and the 
product catalogue, defining product purchase conditions and indirect revenue with the industry.