ABOUT US  •  WHAT WE DO  •  WHAT WE DID  •  WHAT WE WILL DO  •  ANNEXES 23
PRIVATE LABEL PRODUCTS
http://www.despar.it/it/prodotti-a-marchio-despar/
The private label products, managed in collaboration 
with Despar Italia, are products of third-party compa-
nies that are sold under the Despar brand. Private label 
products compete on quality with branded goods and 
come in different lines or brands. In addition, they place  24.6%
special emphasis on sustainability, coming in a simple 
and effective packaging—including for disposal pur-
poses—and are based on increasingly healthy recipes  the turnover  
(with a gradually lower salt and sugar content, in line  of private label products  
with the sustainability projects promoted by the entire  as a percentage  
Group). Our private label offerings include all product  of overall turnover.
categories created exclusively for Despar by the best 
producers on the market. They account for 24.6% of 
turnover. In 2019, the Group finalised a check-list for 
private label product suppliers in order to promote 
and monitor their environmental sustainability strat-
egies. Said check-list is now annexed to contractual 
agreements. In 2019, the Group conducted 38 audits of 
private label product suppliers, inspecting 530 private 
label items and 947 labels.
 The value of private label products
Private label products have always been the best way to convey values to our customers, such as 
quality, convenience, innovation and attention to the environment and health. These values are exem-
plified by the “Friend of the sea” and “Dolphin Safe” labels on the canned tuna line and the increas-
ingly lower salt and sugar content in our recipes, showing our focus on procurement methods and the 
health of consumers.
CENTRO CARNI - THE MEAT CENTRE
In  2019,  Aspiag  Service  brought  all  the  functions  number that allows to trace their lifecycle, including 
of  Bolzano’s  Centro  Carni  Superdistribuzione  S.r.l.  information on the birth of the animal and its diet. The 
in-house through a merger. As a result, Aspiag Service  meat production phases and the Production Centre 
took responsibility for the production and handling  are ISO 22000 and OHSAS 18001 certified, respectively.
of fresh meat at all direct stores and several franchise  The products on offer go hand in hand with consumer 
stores as well as in the countries where the SPAR brand  trends,  replacing  potentially  allergenic  ingredients 
has a presence. By centralising the processing of red  with safer ones and promoting organic, sustainable 
meat and cured meats, Aspiag Service can ensure  and local food production. The entire supply chain of 
high quality standards in terms of natural and safe food  the main meat categories is audited and sold under 
products. The label of all products features a tracking  the Passo dopo Passo brand.
“Passo dopo Passo” supply chain
The “Passo dopo Passo” supply chain is a control programme which informs about the origin of meat, 
fish, fruit and vegetables thanks to the traceability of the production chain. The stamp on the product 
guarantees food safety and quality through controls from production to sale.