26 ASPIAG SERVICE  •  2019 INTEGRATED REPORT
Sales
Sales are made through different store formats that meet the various needs of customers but are similar in terms of 
product quality, widespread presence, and the offering of Despar-branded goods. Besides directly operating stores, 
Aspiag Service supplies franchise retailers, giving them the know-how required to operate under the Despar brand. 
The formats have the following features:
True to its original identity, the Despar brand identifies small neighbourhood supermarkets (100-800 sq. m) offer-
ing a range of everyday products in a typically familiar setting and specialising in perishable and highly perishable 
goods.
Eurospar identifies medium-sized stores (801-2499 sq. m) capable of serving a wider urban area with consumers 
who prefer weekly or bi-weekly grocery shopping trips, offering a broader range of goods that includes non-food 
products as well as some basic services.
Interspar identifies large stores (>2500 sq. m) featuring the broadest possible range of perishable and highly perish-
able goods as well as a wide range of services and non-food products—from electronics to gardening and house-
hold appliances.
The sales process across all channels is aimed at building relationships with customers by offering not only quality 
products but also an innovative and welcoming store with the technology and communication tools required to 
make it sustainable and accessible to everyone.
The evolution of the Interspar format
In 2019, our stores underwent important changes. One of them was the evolution of the Interspar format 
ushered in by the new Interspar in Carpi. This project, developed in partnership by the sales, marketing, 
procurement, and tender areas based on market trends, the type of customers, and the latest techno-
logical innovations, consisted in a complete overhaul of the format—from the structures to lighting, 
aisles, and the sections managed as welcoming shops where the priority is providing the best possi-
ble service to customers. The counters have been redesigned to meet customer mobility needs and 
improve the turnover of products, making them fresher.  In the fruit and vegetables section, the empha-
sis is on organic products in bulk, with wooden crates positioned in such a way as to help the customer 
and an open laboratory for the preparation of fruit and vegetables ready to be eaten. With respect to 
non-food items, the store features customised thematic areas (household goods, stationery, toys, pet 
food), creating a shop-in-shop that changes every month.
Also new are the LED signs that guide customers throughout the store during their shopping experi-
ence and give advice based on the section they are in.
All these innovations are in addition to the features that have been characterising the stores for years 
now, such as the use of photovoltaic systems, certified green energy sources, and heat recovery sys-
tems resulting in energy savings.