2 ASPIAG SERVICE  •  2019 INTEGRATED REPORT
Dear Sir  
and Madam
the work carried out in 2019 and the results we will dis- The emphasis Despar’s employees place on sustain-
cuss in this Integrated Report are the fruit of the com- ability has allowed us to make improvements with 
mitment and passion that Despar’s employees have  respect to the ISO 14001 certification, making our pro-
showed every day in the past year. I am writing this  cesses increasingly more robust and effective. Our 
at the end of 2019, as the leitmotiv that will guide us  decision of being a sustainable Company translates 
and identify our brand in 2020 and beyond is already  into using plastics responsibly. This year, we introduced 
apparent: the value of choice. the  use  of  water  bottles,  environmentally-friendly 
Every day, we take decisions that make our Company  glasses, and micro-filtered water dispensers among 
not only successful, but also valuable, as the results we  our employees—simple everyday gestures that allow 
are presenting to you show. to achieve broader goals.
Once again in 2019, we decided to stay close to our  We want to maintain a high-quality presence in each 
community through our CSR operations, as part of  of the communities we serve. We have done this while 
which the value and dedication of Despar’s men and  opening 21 new stores (8 direct stores and 13 franchise 
women come to life. Our stores thus turn into venues  stores), expanding yet again in Emilia Romagna with 
of aid and solidarity. We saw this during emergencies,  a ground-breaking Interspar format, and inaugurat-
as a high tide swept through Venice in November 2019:  ing the magnificent Despar in Padua’s Prato della 
the generosity of our customers and the dedication of  Valle—an example of renovation that allows people 
Despar’s men and women allowed to raise €70,000 in  to do their groceries while breathing art and history. 
donations for the city in just a few days. Our choices  Aspiag Service added not only new stores, but also 
of value and the value of our choices: we see them in  new employees: in 2019 the headcount rose yet again 
our fund-raising efforts, through which we support all  to  8,236  employees,  who  represent  Despar’s  true 
those associations that represent a key asset in our 4  strength.
regions. By deciding to help them, we as a Company 
become a reference for communities. The value of choice: the decisions we have made in 
At Despar, choosing proximity and inclusion means  nearly 60 years, be they small or big, right or wrong, 
supporting also several entities and initiatives through  have made us who we are. They have turned us into an 
sponsorships, helping them increase the already price- increasingly recognised and recognisable Company 
less value they add to the local community. Proximity  when it comes to our operations as well as each of 
and inclusion: these key words are reflected in our  our people—those who choose to grow together and 
“tribe”, which is becoming bigger and bigger as well as  make themselves invaluable to Despar through their 
more and more vibrant with ideas, people, and projects. work every day.
Rudolf Staudinger
Chairman