46 ASPIAG SERVICE  •  2019 INTEGRATED REPORT
New openings and renovations
MATERIAL TOPICS SDGs
Financial 
performance
Sales network
growth
Employer
attractiveness
DIRECT RETAIL STORES FRANCHISE RETAIL STORES
8 6 13 8
NEW OPENINGS   RENOVATIONS  NEW OPENINGS    RENOVATIONS 
AND MODERNISATION   AND MODERNISATION   
For an effective strategy it is essential to maintain  surroundings. Similarly, we renovate urban areas or 
a high level of innovation and development. A big  former industrial areas to enhance them by opening 
improvement effort is carried out in the retail stores,  new stores.
which are the meeting place between the company  The spaces inside the stores are revised on a regular 
and the customers, as well as the major example of our  basis and seek to always provide a functional and com-
manufactured capital. The Company sees innovation  fortable environment without any obstacles, architec-
as a competitive advantage: for this reason, innovative  tural barriers, and unpleasant architecture. The sales 
proposals from employees as well as from the outside  network continued expanding in 2019 as part of a sus-
are developed, since these are considered import- tainable strategy that we have been pursuing for years 
ant for both the professional growth of everyone and  now: in the investment approval project, we include 
corporate growth. Our Growth activities, set out in a  the best solutions in terms of sustainability and rule 
Three-Year Growth Plan, pursue this goal through the  out technological solutions that are either unsustain-
Company’s expansion or the acquisition of other super- able or not aligned with the Company’s values.
market chains or individual stores. This involves ana- We continued consolidating our presence in Emilia 
lysing and measuring key indicators at the level of the  Romagna through intense communication, sponsor-
community and each individual municipality—study- ship and engagement efforts as well as by opening 
ing the resident population, tourist flows, and the pur- new stores in Romagna. This did not mean leaving the 
chasing power as well as any untapped potential of the  other regions behind: all of them saw new openings as 
local area, while accounting for the existing sales net- well as renovations or acquisitions—resulting in a pro-
work (both Despar and the competition) and planned  portionate increase in employment within the trading 
future openings. Relationships with entrepreneurs, the  area and a type of growth in line with the Company’s 
public administration, local authorities, brokers, and  sustainability practices.
others drive the Company’s expansion, acquisitions, or  In addition to developing its stores as usual, Aspiag 
leases as well as the award of real estate construction  Service continues making significant investment also 
contracts. to consolidate the future agri-food hub. It has also 
Another form of growth involves analysing existing  invested heavily in technology to innovate its stores.
stores to assess whether it is possible to improve their  Our investing activities, which totalled €134.6 million 
performance  by  renovating,  expanding  or  moving  in 2019, go towards meeting the targets 11.3 and 11.4 of 
them to a better location. Innovation often involves  the relevant SDG, as our stores are always intended to 
renovating historic properties in city centres and his- be part of urban centres in a sustainable and inclusive 
torical or cultural landmarks while respecting their   manner while protecting the existing cultural heritage.