4 ASPIAG SERVICE  •  2019 INTEGRATED REPORT
About this report
ABOUT THIS REPORT
The Integrated Report is the information tool intended  STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
(SDGs)
to illustrate how the Company creates value in the  Reading tools
short, medium, and long term in the context it oper-
ates in. The Integrated Report allows representing, 
assessing, and monitoring in a consistent manner the  Aspiag Service's strategy is aligned with the UN
Market share increase
actions,  resources—including  intangible  ones—and  2030 Agenda's sustainable development goals.
results that are crucial to the Company. The  following  are  the  goals  that  are  most 
CAPITALS
relevant to our business:
INTEGRATED REPORT: WHY?
Generation of ﬁnancial resources
The Integrated Report tells how the Company creates 
IIRC  guidelines  allow  to  show  how  Aspiag 
value from the resources it uses and reinvests. The deci- Good health and well-being
Service creates value over time by using its 
sion to prepare an Integrated Report allows to show 
resources, that are the six capitals. Throughout 
the identity and results of Aspiag Service through the 
the Integrated Report, you can recognise the 
six capitals, underlining the connections and resources  New openings and renovations
capitals based on the different colours assigned 
relevant to the Company’s strategic decisions.
to them.
Decent work and economic growth
PRESENTATION
Financial
The  CFO  leads  the  preparation  of  the  Integrated  Set of funds available to the Company for its  Customer satisfaction
Report and presents it to the Board of Directors on 
operations.
the occasion of the approval of the Annual Financial  Sustainable cities and communities
Statements.
Manufactured
REFERENCES Owned or leased real estate, retail stores, Enhancing employees
administrative ofﬁces, platforms, machinery,
The <IR> Framework of IIRC is the reference document  Responsible consumption 
equipment, and stocks of marketed products.
and production
for the Integrated Report. The sustainability indicators 
disclosed in this Report are reported according to the 
Intellectual Attention to the environment 
GRI Standards under the “in accordance-Core option”:  Operational processes and procedures as well and the territory
they are marked with an icon on the side of the body 
as activities intended to ensure quality and
text. The interactive links to websites are highlighted in  safety. Climate action
green, and the terms marked with a * are illustrated in 
Methodological Notes the glossary at the bottom of the page.  Human MATERIAL TOPICS
For more details on the references used and the prepa-
Intangible asset of skills, abilities and
GRI Content Index ration of the Report, please see the Methodological 
knowledge of those who work in the
Notes (p. 80).
Sustainable Development Goals Company. They  are  the  most  important  topics  for  the 
Company and stakeholders. The needs and priori-
Auditor’s Report Our Integrated Report is not just a reporting tool, but  Social and relationship
ties of both are captured in a materiality matrix. 
on the Limited Audit rather a process capable of affecting other processes  Company relations with key external
Throughout the Report, they are highlighted with 
of the GRI Disclosure and decisions during its preparation as well as after its  stakeholders (customers, institutions, suppliers)
the colour of the relevant capital.
release: in combination with other resources, it allows  necessary to enhance the corporate image, its
the Company to coordinate its internal units, refine the  reputation and stakeholder satisfaction.
method used to report the value it creates, and convey 
GRI
information to make decisions. Natural
The set of natural resources used as part
of the Company's operations.
GRI