ABOUT US  •  WHAT WE DO  •  WHAT WE DID  •  WHAT WE WILL DO  •  ANNEXES 53
D e Vino magazine
153,500 Premiata 
m
no. of copies ac
elle
370,000 r
ia
no. of copies
38
no. of
courses held
COURSES AND EVENTS DESPAR NORDEST Di 
MAGAZINES Vi
t
In 2019, we created several courses  a 
m
to draw customers to our offerings and  Aspiag Service reaches its customers  1,106,610 a
raise their awareness when it comes to  through various magazines, sharing useful  ga
well-being and good food. Among others,  information, fun facts, and recipes. These include  no. of copies niz
over 1,100 we offer courses on wine, beer,  DeVino Magazine, which focuses on food and wine  e
confectionery, and seasonal fruits and  culture and is made with the help of industry experts; 
participants vegetables, as well as courses held by a  Premiata Macelleria, which provides information on 
nutritionist. The “Sapori del Nostro  how to cook meat, audited supply chains, selected 
Territorio” initiatives also carry on. These  farms, and proper meat preparation techniques; DiVita 
meetings allow promoting typical  Magazine, available for free at our stores in partnership 
products and their producers directly  with the Despar Italia consortium, while the online 
within the stores, creating  version (the Casadivita blog) has turned into a 
opportunities to share  website that runs in parallel to the institutional one.  1,337
information directly with  Recipes, advice, typical and seasonal products are 
85 customers. available on the website to inform about the  no. of feature
Meetings principles of a healthy lifestyle, proposed  articles
and encouraged by experts in the ﬁeld 
of nutrition. 1,145
no. of recipes
Casadivita.it  
93
Schools 
involved
LE BUONE ABITUDINI 500
Teachers
“Le Buone Abitudini” is a free food  Despar Tribù App
education programme that Aspiag 
Service offers to local primary schools 
The Despar Tribù App also underwent significant changes during the year. It has turned into a true 
in order to raise awareness about eating 
healthy. It provides for training meetings,  edutainment tool, entertaining customers with games while informing them about local products, ini-
exchanges with experts and speciﬁc  tiatives, events, and topics associated with sustainability and protecting the environment. An update 
programmes for the different age groups 
has allowed to automate coupons, making them easier to use for customers—which include 384,953 
of pupils. In 2018, the Company entered 
registered users in 2019. Customers can be reached quickly and directly through the app’s notifications, 
into a 5- year partnership with the  13,000
University of Padua to monitor the  which provide information on available games as well as news about, and any recalls of, our products, 
health beneﬁts of this  Pupils making customers more loyal and bringing them closer to the Company.
programme.
299,806 over 2.6 m 20%
48 Active users at checkout Coupons downloaded App Penetration
Municipalities