ABOUT THIS REPORT 5
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
(SDGs)
Reading tools
Aspiag Service's strategy is aligned with the UN
Market share increase
2030 Agenda's sustainable development goals.
The  following  are  the  goals  that  are  most 
CAPITALS
relevant to our business:
Generation of ﬁnancial resources
IIRC  guidelines  allow  to  show  how  Aspiag 
Good health and well-being
Service creates value over time by using its 
resources, that are the six capitals. Throughout 
the Integrated Report, you can recognise the 
New openings and renovations
capitals based on the different colours assigned 
to them.
Decent work and economic growth
Financial
Set of funds available to the Company for its  Customer satisfaction
operations.
Sustainable cities and communities
Manufactured
Owned or leased real estate, retail stores, Enhancing employees
administrative ofﬁces, platforms, machinery,
Responsible consumption 
equipment, and stocks of marketed products.
and production
Intellectual Attention to the environment 
Operational processes and procedures as well and the territory
as activities intended to ensure quality and
safety. Climate action
Methodological Notes Human MATERIAL TOPICS
Intangible asset of skills, abilities and
GRI Content Index
knowledge of those who work in the
Sustainable Development Goals Company. They  are  the  most  important  topics  for  the 
Company and stakeholders. The needs and priori- We thank all employees who make this document 
Auditor’s Report Social and relationship
ties of both are captured in a materiality matrix.  more and more comprehensive and accurate through 
on the Limited Audit Company relations with key external
Throughout the Report, they are highlighted with  their precious contribution.
of the GRI Disclosure stakeholders (customers, institutions, suppliers)
the colour of the relevant capital.
necessary to enhance the corporate image, its
reputation and stakeholder satisfaction. Enjoy your reading
GRI
Natural
Working Group Coordinator: 
The set of natural resources used as part
Raffaele Trivellato, CFO of Aspiag Service  
of the Company's operations.
 raffaele_trivellato@despar.it
GRI