62 ASPIAG SERVICE  •  2019 INTEGRATED REPORT
OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY
Aspiag Service maintains a high standard of safety for  stantly being assessed and improved also thanks to the 
its employees, customers and third parties in general,  synergies between the different business functions. 
preventing the occurrence of incidents and mitigating  The  Company’s  Internal  Prevention  and  Protection 
any damage. Service  is  constantly  working  for  these  objectives, 
The safety of stores, offices, warehouses, and the Meat  interacting with workers’ safety representatives.
Centre, as well as machinery and equipment, is con-
1  Head of Prevention and  6  Prevention and Protection
Protection Service (RSPP) Service Ofﬁcers (ASPP)
Who interact with
40  Workers’ safety representatives (RLS)
The Company’s Prevention and Protection Service con- There was only one injury resulting in more than 180 
GRI stantly analyses health and safety hazards, defining  days lost, as in 2018, and no deaths occurred. The occu-
the most appropriate prevention and protection mea- pational disease rate remained in line with the previous 
403-1/5
sures for each one of them (e.g. operating procedures,  year, and so did the number of suspected occupational 
refresher training, new or different Personal Protective  diseases reported.
Equipment). The findings of such analysis are formally  Every three months, all stores are briefed on the trend 
presented in the Risk Assessment Documents pre- in injuries through statistical data showing the causes, 
pared by each individual operating unit. place of occurrence, frequency, and equipment most 
Each  year  begins  with  an  analysis  of  the  results  commonly involved in these events.
achieved in the previous one, starting with the analy- Throughout the year, the Company conducted specific 
sis of injuries and near-miss (including also outsourced  audits inside the stores where issues were found, with 
operations), and then of non-compliance cases, regular  the direct support of store managers as well as depart-
audits, and any other information deemed relevant to  ment heads. Occupational health and safety training 
occupational health and safety.  is constantly monitored through the company’s ERP 
In addition, as part of this exercise the Company also  and provided on the basis of the duties assigned to the 
sets goals for improvement, establishing for each one  specific roles (e.g. emergency response team member) 
of  them  the  available  financial  and  organisational  and, in any case, in accordance with applicable laws. All 
GRI resources as well as the relevant timetable. In 2019  Aspiag Service’s organisational units are OHSAS 18001    
injury statistics saw an improvement in terms of both  certified.  The certification was renewed during 2019 
403-8
the injury rate and the number of lost days due to  without any non-compliance.
injury, aligning Aspiag Service with the SDG 3. 