74 ASPIAG SERVICE  •  2019 INTEGRATED REPORT
Future outlook 
Global trade lost momentum during the year and is projected to expand slowly over 
the medium term.
The current weakness in international trade, especially  positive growth (+0.8% compared to 2018) thanks to 
when it comes to manufacturing, and the mounting  the strong performance in the South (+0.9% com-
uncertainty over recurring trade and political tensions  pared to -0.6% in 2018) and the growth of the discount 
continue weighing on global economic growth, hold- channel as well as structured groups. This comes at 
ing back investments (source: ECB). The situation is  the expense of small merchants, who are struggling 
made even tougher by the risks Coronavirus poses  in the face of price competition. 
at a global level to both healthcare systems and the  Declining margins and the problems experienced by 
economy as well as the escalating conflict between  certain players represent opportunities for others. In 
the US and Iran: the relevant impacts on oil prices  2020, large scale distribution is expected to grow by 
and global trade are yet to be fully appreciated. Some  +1.4% compared to 2019 (source: Nielsen based on Iri 
respite comes from more clarity over Brexit and the  data), without considering the boost from the e-com-
easing of trade disputes between the United States  merce channel: in 2019 online food purchases were up 
and China (source: Istat). +26% relative to 2018, accounting for approximately 
The latest data point to slow global growth, which  2.5% of total grocery shopping, and are likely to con-
will continue being supported by favourable finan- tinue rising in 2020 with an additional +30%. 
cial conditions, rising employment, and the slightly  With respect to current trends, prices could poten-
expansive fiscal policy of the euro area (source: Bank  tially  rise  (+1%),  following  the  approximately  0.5% 
of Italy), whose goal is to mitigate the downcycle and  increase seen in 2019, and more shopping could hap-
firmly address structural issues such as the lack of  pen  at  modern  retailers  rather  than  conventional 
public investments, climate change, and social ten- small ones. In 2020, the sales network will expand in 
sions. In Italy, policy actions are aligned with European  terms of square footage mostly in the discount and 
ones and aim to boost domestic demand through  supermarket segments, whereas hypermarkets will 
public investments while striving to reduce the debt/ continue shrinking (-0.9% at the end of 2019).
GDP ratio: GDP growth is estimated at +0.4% in 2020  Below  is  a  breakdown  of  the  outlook  for  Aspiag 
(source: 2019 Economic and Financial Document).  Service by strategic objective.
Against this backdrop, the retail industry is showing 