76 ASPIAG SERVICE  •  2019 INTEGRATED REPORT
Customer satisfaction
s
s al
G t
D pi
S a
C
Starting  from  2020,  Aspiag  Service  will  reposition  To increasingly meet customer needs, employees will 
the brand according to a new strategy, in line with  participate in new training initiatives, such as those 
the celebration of Despar Italia’s 60-year anniversary.  concerning the delicatessen department as well as 
This will involve a communication campaign on tele- the preparation of products together with chefs. 
vision as well as digital and paper media. The cele- As for Despar’s private label products, 2020 will see 
brations will promote private label products and the  the revamp of the Verde Vera and Gemma Verde lines 
brand through travelling initiatives inside the truck  as well as the addition of Enjoy as part of a strategy to 
together with employees and franchisees, strength- increase the share of turnover generated from private 
ening the identity and values of the Despar brand. The  label products. 
Despar Tribù App will also constantly evolve through  In this sense, the Company will introduce a greater 
smart updates, expanding to include franchisees and  number of items within growing market lines or in 
offering heart points for select product categories  product categories that are still lagging behind, as 
Including branded product suppliers.  well as improve its promotional efforts.
Enhancing employees
s
s al
G t
D pi
S a
C
After listening to employees, Aspiag Service will intro- An additional 23 Semi-automated Defibrillators were 
duce a number of innovations in 2020: it will begin  recently  delivered,  allowing  to  cover  the  Interspar 
using the truck for recruiting purposes, turning it into  channel.
an additional venue for interviews in all regions. As for  The main goal for 2020 is to transition the Occupational 
store employees, inventory management processes  Safety Management System implemented across all 
will speed up thanks to scales offering new function- operating units from the OHSAS 18001 scheme to the 
alities, while meter reading and the monitoring of  new UNI EN ISO 45001 standard.
rejected products will be streamlined by extending the  This transition will facilitate its integration with the UNI 
functions of the PDAs. With respect to Occupational  EN ISO 14001 environmental certification scheme in 
Safety, the Company has activated a project to raise  the future. 
awareness among employees about how to properly  The staff management function will identify the best 
handle loads manually. At each physical examination,  organisational solutions to meet the needs of employ-
the Occupational Physician will give employees an  ees and branches, promote work-life balance, and 
information booklet summarising and explaining the  promote a positive working environment focused on 
procedures concerned. delivering the best possible service to customers.