80 ASPIAG SERVICE  •  2019 INTEGRATED REPORT
Methodological Notes
To provide a clear and comprehensive explanation of how the information in this 
Integrated Report is connected, we rely on guidelines and standards such as:
• the  International  Integrated  Reporting  <IR>  and €134.6 million in 2019. The indicator is in light blue, 
Framework  as  published  by  the  International  the colour associated with financial capital, and affects 
Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC); the material topic “Financial performance”, which is 
also in light blue.
• the  GRI  Sustainability  Reporting  Standards  pub-
The interactions resulting from this flow illustrate the 
lished in 2016 by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 
ideas of trade-off, i.e. the change (increase, decrease, 
This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI 
transformation) in available resources that turn into 
Standards: Core option;
new inputs for the subsequent reporting period, and 
• UN 2030 Agenda’s Sustainable Development Goals  of connectivity—represented also through the matrix 
(SDGs); on page 70. Our strategic objectives are in line with 
the company’s mission, vision, and values as well as 
• the Italian Civil Code;
the SDGs and stakeholder engagement (page 33). Our 
• the  accounting  principles  issued  by  the  Italian  reporting approach brings those aspects together to 
Accounting Standard Setter (OIC). provide stakeholders with a comprehensive picture of 
the company. 
The Report follows the <IR> Framework for the con-
As for the reporting process, the regular working group 
cepts of value creation and connectivity, the GRI for 
set up to prepare the Integrated Report gathers quan-
the indicators covering socio-environmental issues, 
titative and qualitative data that facilitate the shar-
and  the  UN  2030  Agenda  (SDGs)  for  the  path  to 
ing of information. Additional information that is not 
sustainability.
developed internally, such as information on the eco-
Aspiag Service’s Integrated Report includes the vari-
nomic context, is always reported by referencing the 
ous content elements of the IIRC: organisational over-
source, and so are certain methods used to calculate 
view and external environment, governance (“About 
the data in the tables. The data in the 2019 Integrated 
us”); business model, risks and opportunities, strategy 
Report is compared to the years 2018 and 2017 to pro-
and resource allocation (“What we do”); performance 
vide the reader with a comprehensive picture of the 
(“What  we did”); future outlook (“What we will do”); 
Company’s performance. The 2019 data include also 
basis of preparation and presentation (“Annexes”).
those of the merged entity Superdistribuzione S.r.l., 
This reporting approach seeks to tell how the Company 
whereas the 2018 and 2017 data referred exclusively 
creates value over time. The creation of business value 
to Aspiag Service, in line with the Annual Financial 
(page 34) starts with certain material indicators from 
Statements. The way data is reported may change fur-
2018, which, when incorporated into and used by the 
ther in the event of updates to the GRIs or according 
company’s business model, allow to achieve them and 
to the different availability of data within the company.
the relevant impacts in 2019.
The Independent Auditors EY S.p.A. verify and certify 
The impacts represent the topics that are significant 
the disclosures required by the GRI Standards.
(or material) to the Company and stakeholders, such 
This Report includes the Financial Statements in the 
as the impact of business operations in the context 
form of infographics (pages 38-43), which are based on 
Aspiag Service operates in.
data from the Annual Financial Statements available in 
The opening and closing indicators for the period and 
full at:
the material topics are marked with different colours 
that refer to the relevant capitals and are closely asso- https://www.despar.it/it/bilancio-esercizio-2019/
ciated with the company’s strategy, as the chapter 
This year the Company updated the materiality matrix, 
“Performance” show. For instance, the net investment 
which is presented below along with the scope of the 
indicator (page 47) amounted to €130 million in 2018 
Report.