   
EY S.p.A.    Tel: +39 045 8312511 
 
Via Isonzo, 11  Fax: +39 045 8312550 
37126 Verona  ey.com 
 
Independent auditors’ report on data and information included in the  Our work has been performed in accordance with the principle of "International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised) - Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical 
“Integrated Report 2019” and referenced in the “GRI content index” 
Financial Information" (hereinafter "ISAE 3000 Revised"), issued by the International Auditing and 
 
Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) for limited assurance engagements. This principle requires the 
(Translation from the original Italian text)  planning and execution of procedures in order to obtain a limited assurance that the GRI disclosure of 
  the Integrated Report is free from material misstatements. 
   
To the Board of Directors of Aspiag Service S.r.l.  Therefore, the extent of work performed in our examination was lower than that required for a full 
  examination according to the ISAE 3000 Revised ("reasonable assurance engagement") and, hence, it 
  does not provide assurance that we have become aware of all significant matters and events that would 
We have been appointed to perform a limited assurance engagement on the data and information  be identified during a reasonable assurance engagement. 
included into the “Integrated Report 2019” of Aspiag Service S.r.l. (hereinafter also “the Company”)   
referenced in the “GRI Content index” for the year ended on December 31, 2019 (hereinafter also “GRI  The procedures performed on the GRI disclosure of the Integrated Report were based on our 
disclosure of the Integrated Report”).  professional judgment and included inquiries, primarily with the Company’s personnel responsible for 
  the preparation of the information included in the GRI disclosure of the Integrated Report, documents 
  analysis, recalculations and other procedures in order to obtain evidences considered appropriate.  
Responsibilities of the Directors for the GRI disclosure of the Integrated Report    
In particular, we have performed the following procedures:  
The Directors of Aspiag Service S.r.l. are responsible for the preparation of the GRI disclosure of the   
Integrated Report in accordance with the “Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting  •  analysis of the process relating to the definition of material aspects included in the GRI disclosure of 
Standards” issued by GRI - Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI Standards”), as described in the paragraph  the Integrated Report, with reference to the criteria applied to identify priorities for the different 
“Methodological Notes” of the Integrated Report 2019.  stakeholders’ categories and to the internal validation of the process outcomes; 
The Directors are also responsible for that part of internal control that they consider necessary in order  •  comparison of economic and financial data and information included in the GRI disclosure of the 
to allow the preparation of a GRI disclosure of the Integrated Report that is free from material  Integrated Report with those included in the Company’s consolidated financial statement; 
misstatements caused by fraud or not intentional behaviors or events. 
•  understanding of the processes that lead to the generation, detection and management of 
The Directors are also responsible for defining the Company’s commitments regarding the sustainability  significant qualitative and quantitative information included in the GRI disclosure of the Integrated 
performance as well as for the identification of the stakeholders and of the significant matters to  Report. 
report.   
  In particular, we have conducted interviews and discussions with the management of Aspiag Service 
  S.r.l. and we have performed limited documentary evidence procedures, in order to collect 
Auditors’ independence and quality control  information about the processes and procedures that support the collection, aggregation, 
processing and transmission of non-financial data and information to the department responsible for 
We are independent in accordance with the ethics and independence principles of the Code of Ethics for 
the preparation of the GRI disclosure of the Integrated Report. 
Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, based on 
 
fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and diligence, confidentiality 
Furthermore, for significant information, considering the Company’s activities and characteristics:  
and professional behavior.  
a) with reference to the qualitative information included in the GRI disclosure of the Integrated 
Our audit firm applies the International Standard on Quality Control 1 (ISQC Italia 1) and, as a result, 
Report, we carried out inquiries and acquired supporting documentation to verify its consistency 
maintains a quality control system that includes documented policies and procedures regarding  with the available evidence; 
compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable laws and regulations. 
b) with reference to quantitative information, we have performed both analytical procedures and 
 
limited assurance procedures to ascertain on a sample basis the correct aggregation of data. 
 
   
Auditors’ responsibility  
It is our responsibility to express, on the basis of the procedures performed, a conclusion about the 
compliance of the GRI disclosure of the Integrated Report with the requirements of the GRI Standards. 
EY S.p.A.  
Sede Legale: Via Lombardia, 31 - 00187 Roma  
Capitale Sociale Euro 2.525.000,00 i.v.   EY S.p.A.  
Iscritta alla S.O. del Registro delle Imprese presso la C.C.I.A.A. di Roma   Sede Legale: Via Lombardia, 31 - 00187 Roma  
Codice fiscale e numero di iscrizione 00434000584 - numero R.E.A. 250904   Capitale Sociale Euro 2.525.000,00 i.v.  
P.IVA 00891231003   Iscritta alla S.O. del Registro delle Imprese presso la C.C.I.A.A. di Roma  
Iscritta al Registro Revisori Legali al n. 70945 Pubblicato sulla G.U. Suppl. 13 - IV Serie Speciale del 17/2/1998   Codice fiscale e numero di iscrizione 00434000584 - numero R.E.A. 250904  
Iscritta all’Albo Speciale delle società di revisione   P.IVA 00891231003  
Consob al progressivo n. 2 delibera n.10831 del 16/7/1997   Iscritta al Registro Revisori Legali al n. 70945 Pubblicato sulla G.U. Suppl. 13 - IV Serie Speciale del 17/2/1998  
  Iscritta all’Albo Speciale delle società di revisione  
A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited  Consob al progressivo n. 2 delibera n.10831 del 16/7/1997  
     
A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited