Sustainability for the Hera Group 
Hera’s approach to sustainability 
Sustainability has always played a key role in Hera(cid:859)s strategy ever since its establishment. The approach 
adopted by the Group is based on integrating sustainability in its planning and control systems and, 
therefore, in the management of its business activities. This aspect has been effectively implemented 
through a balanced scorecard system involving all the company management and with our constant 
commitment to stakeholder reporting, as confirmed by the sustainability report. The Report has been 
published on a yearly basis ever since the Group(cid:859)s establishment and, since 2007, has the timescale as the 
financial statements. 
Competitiveness and sustainable development for the company and local area in which the company 
operates form the vision at the basis of Group(cid:859)s approach towards corporate social responsibility and 
sustainability. 
The Company(cid:859)s mission and values have merged into the Code of Ethics, which is updated every three years 
with the involvement of employees, forming the basis of corporate conduct and serving as a point of 
reference for all the people working in the Group. These values represent the strategic and cultural focus 
with which to draw up the Business Plan every year and report the results to stakeholders transparently. 
Lastly, a balanced scorecard system makes it possible to translate the strategy into operational projects 
that are an integral part of the management bonus system. 
This process features a wide range of listening and dialogue actions with stakeholders. 
In 2016, Hera began a process aimed at designing the Group(cid:859)s approach to the Creation of Shared Value 
and reached its own definition of CSV (Creating Shared Value) consistent with the nature of its business. 
The aim of the process is to further integrate sustainability into our business activities and to direct both 
our strategy and sustainability reporting to the urgencies dictated by the Global Agenda on Sustainable 
Development. Thanks to this process, the Hera Group is reshaping its approach towards corporate social 
responsibility, which no longer focuses on the (cid:862)what(cid:863) and (cid:862)how(cid:863) of the company but on its (cid:862)why(cid:863), 
becoming  a  beacon  that  inspires  strategy  and  guides  innovation,  with  a  more  positive,  direct  and 
systematic impact on competitiveness, reputation and involvement. Please see the specific paragraph for 
details. 
Integrating sustainability in the Group strategy 
Our Group strategy must ensure, as usual, solid and coherent industrial and economic development of 
businesses, in line with the performance and results achieved over these 16 years.  
In order to respond effectively to the needs of our local area and our customers - for example, attention to 
the environment and new technologies, and the methods for interacting with stakeholders - three critical 
success factors have been identified for utilities in the coming years: Ecosystem, Circularity and Technology. 
Belonging to an ecosystem in a constantly evolving context increases companies(cid:859) resilience to changes in 
the environment and accelerates the evolution of corporate culture as a result of external contamination. 
Our Group strategy has always been based on a close relationship with the local area and its ecosystem: 
this distinctive aspect is regarded today as a real asset, even by investors and rating agencies. 
Circular economy responds to a range of critical issues that modern society must address: from the gradual 
lack of resources to reduced atmospheric emissions or the reduction of non-recyclable waste. Over the 
years, the Group has developed industrial strategies based on sustainability, allowing it to become an 
international point of reference in terms of circular economy. Its future actions must also continue to 
effectively and purposefully steer circularity and decarbonisation goals. 
Technological evolution and, more specifically, digitisation have become ever common priorities in the 
national industrial sector. Greater efficiency by operators will also produce benefits for customers and 
11 
 