In March 2019 the project will be extended to Ferrara.  
 
Sustainable management of water resources 
The Rimini Seawater Protection Plan continues  
The Seawater Protection Plan aims to eliminate swimming bans and reduce the pollution measured in 
terms of COD by 90% by 2020, through structural measures on the sewage and purification system of the 
City of Rimini. 
The numerical modelling of the sewage and purification system already started in 2014, led to further 
optimization of the measures that had already been planned for the system of tanks that serves the 
southern area of Rimini and to the identification of 3 additional measures. The optimization of the tanks, 
introducing a different way to manage rainwater, together with additional measures that involve the 
construction of the works called the Ausa backbone sewage collector, Mavone spillway and the sewage 
pumping system in via Santa Chiara are able to determine synergies that significantly reduce the risk of 
flooding in most of the built-up area where this problem often occurs and thus expand the objectives of the 
plan to include a mitigation of hydrological risks. In this regard, it should be noted that the preliminary 
investigation is also under-way for these additional works, aimed at obtaining further public funding in the 
so-called (cid:862)Italia Sicura(cid:863) sector. 
The Plan is currently essentially made up of the 10 measures originally planned, plus the filling of the Ausa 
Canal, added in 2015, and the additional measures mentioned above, for a total of 14 measures. 
The further optimisation of the Plan, with the design improvements that had to be made and the necessary 
authorisation steps required, meant that the achievement of the environmental objectives, initially planned 
for 2020, was postponed to 2023. It should be noted that by that year, the works necessary to reduce the 
city(cid:859)s hydrological risks will also be completed: the extension of the timeframe for implementing the plan as 
initially envisaged is closely linked to the substantial improvement in the impact of the Plan on the city, 
which, for all the above reasons, will in fact benefit from a significant improvement in both hydrological and 
environmental performance. 
The progress of the construction work does not lead us to expect any significant issues and the quantity 
goals we have set are in sight. All other interventions are underway and in the design phase.  
 
The situation of the 14 measures is as follows: 
Progress  Expected/actual 
Measure  Motivation/benefits 
at 31 December 2018  year of completion 
1. Doubling of the Santa Giustina 
Completed  2016  Purification process improvement 
wastewater treatment plant 
2. Conversion of the Rimini 
Marecchiese purification plant  Completed  2018  Purification process improvement 
into a collection tank 
3. Construction of the Dorsale 
Nord backbone, for drainage of 
the Bellaria purification plant  Completed  2016  Purification process improvement 
into the S. Giustina purification 
plant 
Design of second portion in  Conversion of 5 sewage drains 
4. Completion of the separation 
progress  discharging into the sea into 
of sewage networks in the  2022 
(first portion completed in  rainwater drains (of which 3 
northern area of Rimini 
2018)  already under the 1st portion) 
102 
 