Progress  Expected/actual 
Measure  Motivation/benefits 
at 31 December 2018  year of completion 
Under construction the 
third portion pressure unit, 
Reduction in the number of 
5. Construction of the Dorsale  under design the third 
2020  openings of the Ausa and 
Sud backbone  portion pumping stations 
Colonnella I drains into the sea 
 (second portion completed 
in 2018) 
6. Completion of the separation 
Acquisition of permits in  Conversion of 2 sewage drains into 
in the Roncasso and Pradella  2022 
progress  the sea into rainwater drains 
basins 
7. Construction of subsea  Reduction in the number of 
pipeline and pumping station for  Construction in progress  2019  openings of the Ausa drains into 
the Ausa basin and reservoirs  the sea 
Reduction in the number of 
8. Construction of hospital 
Completed  2016  openings of the Colonnella I drains 
detention reservoir 
into the sea 
9. Construction of conduit 
Reduction in the number of 
between Fossa Colonnella I and 
openings of the Colonnella I, 
Fossa Colonnella II; Vasca  Design in progress   2023 
Colonnella II and Rodella drains into 
Colonnella II and Vasca Rodella 
the sea 
and subsea discharge conduit 
10. Isola sewage 
Completed  2014  Optimization of the sewage system 
decontamination 
Improvement of the usability of the 
11. Filling the Ausa beach stretch  Completed  2016  area and of its environmental 
conditions 
12. Sewage collector of Ausa 
Design in progress   2022  Reduction of hydrological risks 
backbone 
13. Mavone spillway  Completed  2018  Reduction of hydrological risks 
14. Sewage pumping in via Santa  Construction work to start 
2019  Reduction of hydrological risks 
Chiara  soon 
 
The conclusion of 7 interventions has made it possible to obtain significant environmental benefits, with 
the reduction of the quantities of organic substances (COD/BOD) discharged into the sea during intense 
weather events. 
The measures planned for 2019 – the completion of the Ausa reservoirs and underwater pipelines, together 
with the gradual separation of the networks in the northern area of the city – will lead to a considerable 
reduction in the pollution load discharged near the shore, benefiting the quality of the water along the 
coast. This will mean that the bathing bans laid down in the event of discharges being opened up to a large 
part of the city(cid:859)s coastline, including both those areas where the separation of the sewage networks has 
been completed and the stretch of sea bordering the Fossa Ausa, will not apply. From this point of view, 
since 2017 3,084 metres of beach have been (cid:862)freed(cid:863) from bathing bans and in 2019 we expected to 
increase to 4,144 metres. 
Moreover, as a further proof of the strong link between the Plan and the City of Rimini, clearly a part of the 
interventions under the Plan will be integrated into the broader coastal redevelopment project called Sea 
Park, so as to pursue synergies that can provide an overall improvement of the urban structure of the city. 
103 
 