Rimini Seawater Protection Plan was included among the best practices in the SDG Industry Matrix report 
published by the Global Compact and KPMG in 2017, which reports on business opportunities linked to the 
objectives of the UN 2030 Agenda.  
Upgrade work at Servola purification plant in Trieste: towards the full resolution of a 2014 Community 
infringement 
The adaptation of the Servola wastewater purification plant in Trieste: the urban area has been declared 
compliant exiting from the 2014 EU infringement procedure. The new purification plant has been fully 
operational since 23 June 2018. All the functions of the plant (water line and sludge line) have become fully 
operational and the concentrations of pollutants at the outlet have been significantly reduced: phosphorus 
and nitrogen halved, COD reduced by 30%, BOD by more than 60% and suspended solids by 45%. About 
Euro 50 million were spent for the work. The recovery of the process water has also been planned to 
amount to about 180 m3/day: the purified water coming out of the plant is fed back into it for other 
industrial uses, such as, for example, washing the machines.  
The first public openings of the new plant were organized, in view of the inclusion of Servola in the list of 
AcegasApsAmga plants that can be visited by the public (trade associations, private individuals, schools), 
becoming quite popular among participants, taking into account the great innovations that this project has 
developed in the field of plants and wastewater treatment plants. 
Satellite used to search for water network leaks  
There is an innovative solution, based on satellite technology, to fight hidden leaks in the water networks, 
the leaks that do not appear as visible water leaks and are often present in distribution networks.  
In 2016 Hera was the first company in Italy to have used this technology, developed in collaboration with 
the Israeli company Utilis as part of a pilot project in Ferrara, and extended its trials in 2017 and 2018 to 
some areas of the provinces of Modena and Bologna in Emilia and of Forlì-Cesena in Romagna as a tool to 
supplement its scheduled leak detection work, identifying 204 hidden leaks in these three years. The 
innovative technology is based on the analysis of a scan of the subsoil, using an algorithm. The images are 
acquired by the Alos-2 satellite, managed by the Japanese Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA), that orbits 
about 650 kilometres above ground, and uses electromagnetic signals with a wavelength capable of 
penetrating the soil. 
Distorted information is filtered out of the data obtained by the scan and then cross-referenced with the 
network diagram, to obtain a map that shows the network points where leaks are present.  
The actual search for leaks on the spot is then carried out using traditional methods, but thanks to the 
precision of the new system, it covers much smaller areas. 
In 2018, as part of the Circular Water initiatives and with a view to experimenting with innovative leak 
detection technologies applied to the aqueduct network, the (cid:862)Water Hound(cid:863) project was launched to 
experiment  with  in-line  technologies,  i.e.  with  internal  inspection  of  the  pipelines.  The  following 
technologies were then tested 
•  (cid:862)Smart Ball(cid:863): a metal ball containing several sensors, floating and wireless, capable of detecting 
leaks from inside the pipeline; 
•  (cid:862)Sahara(cid:863): a wired device pushed by the flow of water thanks to a parachute on its top, able to 
perform video analysis, detect leaks and air bubbles from inside the pipeline, and trace the exact 
position of the pipeline. 
The experimentation was carried out on the area of Ravenna on two stretches of pipelines of different sizes 
and materials with the identification of some hidden leaks as well as data and information on the condition 
of the pipelines. 
 
 
 
 
104 
 