Innovation and contribution to development 
Objectives and performance 
Area 
What we said we would do  What we have done 
* 
• Continue to promote electronic billing (22% of  • 24% of customers receive their bills by email. 
contracts used electronic billing in 2018 and 31%  The second edition of (cid:862)Digi e Lode(cid:863), a project that 
ER     
in 2021) also by continuing the (cid:862)Digi e Lode(cid:863)  brings customers and the company together to 
campaign on digitalization in local schools.  digitalize schools in the area, has started. 
•  Improve the customer experience for our 
•  21% customers registered for online services at 
customers: increase customers using online  ER     
the end of 2018 (19% in 2017).  
services to 20% in 2018 and to 24% in 2021.  
• The implementation of 3 business 
intelligence/data analytics projects continued. 
- scheduled gas leak detection work, and the 
• Continue the implementation of business  operation and maintenance of gas networks will 
intelligence/data analytics projects to:  be optimised in 2019 on the basis of the analyses 
- optimize the scheduled gas leak detection work,  and instruments carried out in 2018; 
and the operation and maintenance of gas  - the paper collection routes in Ferrara were 
networks;  optimized and 5 operational research projects for 
     
- optimize waste collection routes, also based on  the optimization of the collection routes in 
the filling level of bins/containers;  Ferrara, Modena, Bologna and Ravenna were 
- optimize the management of treatment plants  completed; 
(energy consumption and performance) by  - the project for the optimization of energy 
developing predictive methods.  consumption and performance of the Modena 
purification plant started and will continue in 
2019 and will involve another 12 purification 
plants (Senseable Dep). 
• 3 the new areas (health and safety, diversity 
• Continue to involve the workforce using  management, waste management services) in 
Heureka: stimulate innovative ideas in three new  which workers with Heureka have been involved. 
ER  T  M 
areas in 2018. Start feasibility studies for selected  39 ideas were proposed during the year. 
employee initiatives.   Feasibility studies for selected employee 
initiatives have been started. 
• Since 2018 customers can use tracking 
• Improve the customer experience: develop 
functions on the main practices (transfer, change 
tracking services for the main practices to inform 
of power and flow rate, etc.) and can use the 
customers on the progress of their applications  ER     
Alert service, a reminder for events such as: bill 
and alert services, i.e. reminders that can be set 
issuance, deadline for self-reading, reminder of 
according to customer(cid:859)s preference. 
appointments, etc. 
• Improve the customer experience for our 
customers: simplify procedures for acceptance of  • In 2018, the procedure for accepting quotes 
offers and subscription of contracts, by applying  and signing contracts was simplified by  ER     
digitalization: extend the simplified procedures to  implementing digital signing at all branch offices. 
all branch offices by 2018. 
105 
 