Spreading innovation and digitalization 
The term innovation traditionally is used to identify a process that makes an idea turn into a good or service 
to which a value is assigned. In addition, innovation must be repeatable at an affordable cost and must 
meet specific needs. Innovating does not mean inventing, nor planning, but rather seeking, perceiving, 
discovering, making progress, improving and knowing how to gain value in the present and future contexts.  
Progress, change and development can take place both as an evolution and an improvement of the current 
state, both breaking with, or sharply diverging with respect to the present situation. We can therefore talk 
about two types of innovation: 
•  evolutionary innovations, which lead to technological, process, product or service advancement; 
•  revolutionary innovations: they occur where there is discontinuity with the past, at times leading 
to new, disruptive technologies, or completely replace the current situation. 
There is always an element of risk to innovation: it may not prove to be successful or there may be effects 
and interactions that were not initially foreseen. This requires us to carry out a detailed preliminary 
evaluation to minimize the possible waste of resources or unexpected negative impacts. 
Innovation for the Hera Group 
Innovation is one of our Group(cid:859)s five strategic cornerstones. The model we use is based on widespread 
innovation: each department is responsible for its own individual innovation initiatives, from the review of 
processes to the identification of new services, from instruments for improving efficiency to the launch of 
new operating models.  
However, there are guidelines, factors and tools that enable the innovation process, such as information 
technology. This is why Hera has set up a specific Central Innovation Department, reporting to the 
Managing Director, with the goal of analysing the main market trends, identifying the areas of greatest 
interest,  evaluating  and  proposing  projects  and  solutions  to  individual  departments,  and  supporting 
developments with Information and Communication Technology and tools. 
The Central Innovation Department includes Information Systems, connectivity and telecommunications 
(through  the  subsidiary  Acantho),  and  the  Development  Department,  which  identifies  scenarios  and 
possible action areas and proposes engineering and technology innovation projects. 
Action areas 
The main areas of innovation in the Hera Group, also in line with the Business Plan, can be summarized as 
follows: 
•  circular  economy  aimed  at  environmental  sustainability,  the  optimisation  of  materials  and 
maximising the recovery of waste and scrap. 
•  customer  experience  aimed  at  understanding  the  needs  and  wishes,  expressed  and  not,  of 
consumers in order to shape actions to improve their satisfaction level; 
•  digitalization  and  data  analytics  (Utilities  4.0)  with  activities  linked  to  implementing  new 
technologies, particularly IT, for the digitalization, automation, and flexibility of processes, the 
enhancement and efficient use of data; 
•  smart city for the introduction of technologies to improve living conditions in cities and the services 
supplied to the general public. 
To encourage and boost innovation in its businesses, the Group has also launched social innovation 
initiatives,  involving  both  external  stakeholders  through  HeraLAB  (see  section  (cid:862)Dialogue  with  our 
stakeholders(cid:863)) and internal players, through Heureka (see section (cid:862)Case studies(cid:863) of this chapter).  
108 
 