citizens, in terms of cost or service quality. The Group needs to use the opportunities offered by new 
technologies in order to extract cost efficiencies and synergies connected to data management and will be 
able to play a key role as facilitator for spreading a smart approach throughout the local area, especially in 
the case of smart cities. 
The five strategic levers already used by the Hera Group in recent years (Growth, Excellence, Efficiency, 
Innovation and Agility) are useful for coordinating the work and strategies of the single units, steering them 
towards a shared target and actions. 
The 2018-2022 Business Plan - drawn up in compliance with the guidelines described above - confirms and 
strengthens the Group(cid:859)s industrial growth trajectory, projecting an EBITDA goal of Euro 1,185 million in 
2022, rising by Euro 200 million compared to 2017. This objective will be achieved also as a result of Euro 
3.1 billion investments spread over five years, rising by over Euro 50 million/year compared to the amount 
allocated in the previous Plan, focusing mainly on meter roll-out, network resilience projects, construction 
of new plants and external growth projects. 
Economic growth targets were defined as usual by ensuring financial balance (the net debt to EBITDA ratio 
will always be below 3.0x) and focusing on projects and actions that bring benefits to the company while at 
the same time achieve the 2030 UN Agenda targets applicable to Hera(cid:859)s activities (11 out of the 17 targets). 
To this effect, almost ¾ of the five-year growth forecast in the Business Plan will be replaced by projects 
implemented to respond to this (cid:862)call to action(cid:863), thus bringing shared value EBITDA to exceed Euro 470 
million in 2022 (40% of total EBITDA). 
Our commitment to sustainability in the national and international networks 
Hera(cid:859)s commitment to sustainability has taken shape over the past years by joining leading international 
networks. 
The Hera Group was the second Italian company to complete the process for inclusion in the CE100 
programme of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, the world(cid:859)s leader in circular economy, which aims to 
promote issues related to the circular economy, exchange experiences, initiate projects in partnerships and 
cooperate in the field of research and development. In 2018, Hera took part in the following initiatives of 
the Foundation: (cid:862)New Plastics Economy Global Commitment(cid:863) to make the plastics sector more circular, 
(cid:862)Water White Paper(cid:863) on water resource circularity, the (cid:862)Cities and Circular Economy for Food(cid:863) on the 
circularity of the food supply chain in cities, and the launch of a (cid:862)pitch(cid:863) at the 2018 acceleration workshop 
in Lisbon on the circular economy in cities. 
Hera  is  also  among  the  promoters  of  the  Circular  Economy  Network,  a  project  promoted  by  the 
Sustainable Development Foundation and by a group of companies and associations involved in the 
transition to a new model of circular economy. 
The Hera Group joined the Global Compact in 2004, and in July 2017 it was included in the Global Compact 
Network Italia Foundation, the Italian network set up in 2013 which has been joined by over 50 business 
and non-businesses. 
Also within the Global Compact, Hera joined the CEO Water Mandate, the United Nations Global Compact 
initiative promoted to re-launch commitment by companies in the sustainable management of water 
resources. 
Hera is also a member of Impronta Etica, an organisation that promotes corporate social responsibility and 
is part of the CSREurope network and CSR Manager Network Italia, the Italian network of sustainability 
professionals. 
2030 UN goals for sustainable development and Hera projects 
The 2030 Agenda for sustainable development ratified at the UN summit in September 2015 by 193 
countries includes 17 goals regarding sustainable development (Sustainable Development Goals or SDGs), 
12 
 