In 2019 a second release of the platform will be released with optimizations to give more value to 
sustainability objectives, also facilitating the use of the tool by municipal technicians. 
Smart city: City energy maps 
Energy maps are useful tools to assess a city’s energy consumption over time and to carry out efficiency 
analyses. During 2018, data were collected on energy consumption from the Castel Bolognese municipal 
administration  (consumption  of  gas,  electricity,  water  and  TARI  waste  tax  data  for  municipal  waste 
management services) and their processing led to the identification of building consumption classes, as well 
as the assessment of the consistency between water consumption and the number of residents and an 
estimate  of  the  type  of  system  used  for  heating.  Further  processing  is  underway,  also  taking  into 
consideration  the  contribution  of  renewable  sources.  Energy  maps  may  also  be  useful  to  public 
administrations to gain more detailed knowledge of their local community and to promote virtuous, 
energy-saving behaviour. 
Circular economy: Bioplastic from organic fraction 
In 2018, a partnership was founded with Bio-On, a world leader in the production of bioplastics. Among the 
projects planned is also the (cid:862)PHA-CELL(cid:863) which aims to produce PHA, a 100% biodegradable bioplastic, 
using as raw material the sugars contained in lignocellulosic biomass. These sugars are present in all types 
of wood, but are difficult to use because they are bound in complex structures such as cellulose and 
hemicellulose. Through appropriate treatments that involve the use of heat and particular enzymes, it is 
possible to (cid:862)break(cid:863) these structures and release the sugars that can then be used in the production process 
of bioplastics. 
The project stems from the desire of the Hera group to obtain high-value products in the future using the 
organic waste it collects in the area, including mowing and pruning material that could be used in the PHA-
CELL process. 
Circular economy: Bioplastic from hydrogen and CO  
2
In 2018 Hera and Bio-On formed a new company called Lux-On, which aims to rapidly develop the 
technology that uses carbon dioxide present in the atmosphere as a source of carbon for the production of 
bioplastics,  natural  and  100%  biodegradable.  Lux-On(cid:859)s  bioplastic  production  will  be  based  only  on 
renewable solar energy and, thanks to the use of hydrogen as an energy management tool, will operate 24 
hours a day. The laboratories and the first plant will be built by 2019 near the Bio-On Plants industrial plant 
in Castel San Pietro Terme (Bologna). The development of the technology will be favoured by the fact that 
many of the principles and equipment used in the standard Bio-On technology can also be used in the new 
Lux-On production systems; for this reason, the transition from the development phase to the pre-
industrial phase will be greatly accelerated. The plant will be built on an area of 1,500 m2, of which 600 m2 
will be covered, and will have a flexible production capacity and expandable quickly. 
This  new  production  process  will  use  electricity  produced  by  photovoltaic  systems.  International 
partnerships with major players in hydrogen (H) technology will be used for energy storage. Hydrogen, a 
non-polluting gas, will be produced from solar energy, stored until it is used, and then converted back into 
electricity to power the system when the solar panels do not work, at night or in low sunlight. 
Circular economy: Biorefinery 2.0 to produce biomethane from pruning material and agricultural by-
products 
Hera started targeted research to analyse the technologies to produce advanced biofuels obtained by 
processing mowing and pruning material collected in the area. These waste materials are currently used in 
composting processes or are used for energy recovery but in the future, they could be used to produce 
111 
 