bioethanol and biomethane. Both of these fuels can be considered advanced because they are produced 
from waste materials and not from dedicated energy crops which use land which can potentially be used 
for human food or animal feed. To be able to obtain these fuels from ligno-cellulosic waste, pre-treatments 
are required, such as steam explosion (a particular thermal treatment with high-pressure steam) that 
makes the material readily degradable by bacteria, enzymes or yeasts, in anaerobic digestion processes or 
alcoholic fermentation. 
The positive results of the tests carried out in 2017 have reinforced the possibility of producing biomethane 
from mowing waste, while the idea of production of ethanol has been discarded due to the low yield. 
During  2018,  the  experimental  period  was  carried  out,  and  included,  among  other  activities,  two 
continuous digestion tests lasting 5 months and more than 40 batch tests. The tests confirmed the good 
yields that can be obtained from anaerobic digestion of the pruning material subjected to pre-treatment 
and the results obtained will be used to start the feasibility phase of a full scale plant. In 2019, the design 
phase will be completed and the authorization process will be launched. 
Circular economy: Ultrasonic sludge hydrolysis system  
The project was developed after research carried out in 2017 to identify new technologies to optimize the 
water cycle and dispose of the sludge from urban wastewater purification.  
The ultrasonic sludge hydrolysis system requires that a part of the thickened sludge from the sewage 
treatment process (20-50%) is subjected to sound waves which, by cavitation of the liquid to be treated 
generate a cellular breakdown which makes more of volatile solids available for biodegradation, increasing 
biogas production and reducing the final dry matter in the sludge and thus reducing its volume.  
The Forlì treatment plant has been identified as the optimal site for the installation of ultrasonic hydrolysis 
technology and some preparatory work has already begun. The installation is expected to end in 2019 and 
subsequently the results will be monitored and the performance of the system evaluated. 
Circular economy: Greenhouses from drying purification sludge 
During 2018, the technological scouting and technical feasibility of using special greenhouses to dry 
purification sludge was completed. The application case chosen was that of the sludge produced by the 
Ferrara purification plant, which could be dried using geothermal energy, as well.  
In addition, during 2018, AcegasApsAmga S.p.A. completed the construction of a pilot plant at the Padua 
purification plant for drying sludge in a greenhouse powered only by solar energy. 
Circular economy: Reuse of wastewater 
In April 2018, the Emilia-Romagna Regional Government, ARPAE, ATERSIR and Consorzio Bonifica Renana 
signed a three-year programme agreement to recover the wastewater discharged from the Bologna 
purification plant (IDAR). 
The Protocol has been operational since August 2018, and the flow rate of recovered purified water is over 
500,000 m3 (under the agreement the Consortium can withdraw about 2,160 m3/h, equal to about 40% of 
the flow rate treated in the summer).  
In particular, part of the water purified by the IDAR plant to the (cid:862)Abandoned Savena(cid:863) is carried through a 
dedicated pipeline, leaving the corresponding flow, coming from the river Reno, to the (cid:862)Canale Navile(cid:863). 
This is done through a modulated management of surface water flows by the Consorzio della Bonifica 
Renana, in relation to the demands and degree of drought of the water bodies. 
112 
 