Customer experience: Customer experience project 
The activities relating to the customer experience project are nearing completion. The project aims to 
reduce the gap between the service provided by the Hera Group and customer expectations. 
Thanks to this project, customers have new channels to improve and complete their digital experience, 
such as the Selfcaring portal, the app and the social networks. The customer experience has also been 
improved through the Touch Points of the physical channels, the functional redesign of the layout of the 
branch offices, the introduction of digital signatures, the Alert service (bill issuance, deadline for self-
reading and reminder of appointments) and the Tracking function to control the time development of 
one(cid:859)s requests (via SMS, e-mail and notifications on the App and On Line Services) for an ever-increasing 
number of processes (switch, transfer, power and flow rate variation). 
Lastly, the (cid:862)Hera Angel(cid:863) service was released, a reminder developed to support home change management, 
the (cid:862)Queue management system(cid:863) was improved with the introduction of room and workstation displays 
and branch office tickets can now be booked through call centers, branch offices, on line services and apps. 
For 2019 the following is planned:  
-  the  Go  Live  of  the  new  site  and  the  enhancement of  social  CRM  services,  with  new  releases  to 
improve/add  functionalities  to  the  on  line  services  and  app,  to  support  omni-channel  service  and 
digitalization; 
- the overall redesign of the Customer Experience and the conclusion of the Projects to involve customers 
and enhance the brand, in support of the centrality of our customers; 
- other activities to support the values of operational excellence, flexibility and speed. 
Customer experience: New ways to pay bills 
Hera has signed several cooperation agreements with major banking players (Unicredit, CBILL, MyBank, 
Jiffy, Amazon Pay, Paga con Postepay, Masterpass) to develop services that will facilitate a significant 
simplification of payments and related accounting management. 
Under the agreement with Unicredit, 6 million dedicated (cid:862)virtual(cid:863) IBANs have been generated that Hera, 
the first company in Italy to do so on a large scale, has made available to all customers through a 
communication on the bill, or on the invoice. The customer can thus pay conveniently also from their own 
internet banking service, without queues, with automatic and unique recognition of the payment.  
In addition to the (cid:862)virtual(cid:863) IBAN system, Hera is developing additional (cid:862)smart and mobile(cid:863) payment 
methods for its customers, such as digital wallets, to make transactions even simple, immediate and more 
intuitive.  
Specifically, MyBank supports irrevocable online transfers simply and securely using the internet banking 
service of the customers(cid:859) bank. The service provides real-time confirmation of payment and speeds up 
100% automatic reconciliation processes and further reduces the risk of fraud. 
The CBILL service, on the other hand, through an innovative and advanced, multi-bank and multi-channel 
approach, allows the customer to make payments through his own internet banking, but also through 
mobile, ATM and branch office, guaranteeing security for the payer, real-time reporting and complete and 
integrated coverage of the entire bill collection process, from the issue of the notice to reconciliation. 
Customers will also be able, using the MyHera app or the Group(cid:859)s online services, to pay bills by simply 
entering their mobile phone number, through Jiffy (Bancomat Pay), without having to enter their credit 
card or bank account details. 
Lastly, the digital wallets Amazon Pay (payment of the bill through your Amazon account), Masterpass, and 
Paga con Postepay, simplify payments via mobile device or desktop, providing a simple and fast user 
experience. 
117 
 