It provides a methodology pinpointing strategy which it translates into objectives and day-to-day actions. 
The innovation of this approach consists of considering the achievement of objectives of social and 
environmental sustainability as a condition for the achievement of the economic and financial objectives 
over the medium and long term. 
 
What is the balanced scorecard? 
The balanced scorecard is a strategic control system which is based on the connection between strategy 
and the day-to-day running of the company. It was devised in the early 1990s by the American academics, 
R. Kaplan and D. Norton. It has generated an immense following among leading corporations in the USA 
and is now being taken up by major European players. 
The Strategic Map is updated every year based on the contents of the business plan: it provides a summary 
of the Group’s strategic objectives and its commitments to stakeholders set forth in the sustainability 
report. 
During the 2018 budget process, 43 priority projects were defined to achieve the 30 strategic objectives 
set out in the 2019-2022 Strategic Map aimed at creating long-term value for the company and the 
stakeholders.  
In line with the strategic guidelines outlined in the Business Plan, Hera Group(cid:859)s Strategic Map contains the 
strategic objectives connected to the 3 drivers for the creation of shared value (CSV) explained for the first 
time in the 2016 Sustainability Report, namely: 
•  Efficient use of resources; 
•  Smart use of energy; 
•  Innovation and contribution to the development of the area. 
Specifically,  out  of  the  43  priority  projects  assigned  to  the  members  of  the  Management  Review 
Committee, 20 belonged to areas regarding the creation of shared value for the company: 4 projects in the 
(cid:862)Efficient use of resources(cid:863) area, 4 projects in the (cid:862)Smart use of energy(cid:863) area and 12 projects in the 
(cid:862)Innovation and contribution to the development of the area(cid:863) area. 
The priority projects were assigned to members of the Management Review Committee. 
All of the projects planned within the 2018 balanced scorecard system were assigned to a manager and 
included in the bonus system for Group managers and middle managers. 
Each project identified: 
•  the process and result indicators with goals in line with the budget of the Group and the corporate 
departments required for their achievement; 
•  the key action plan for achievement of the project objectives in terms of time and cost. 
The objective projects identified were monitored on a quarterly basis by the Hera Spa Management Review 
Committee and in the individual budget units. 
The definition of objective projects and the relevant quarterly monitoring system of the project elements 
are a significant strategic management instrument that ensures: 
•  integration of the several perspectives for the evaluation of corporate performance, in addition to 
traditional economic and financial measurements; 
•  integration of business plan objectives into the daily management of managers and middle managers; 
•  implementation of a continuous improvement process for strategic objectives and the relative projects 
and indicators; 
•  formalisation and tracking of both actions and sub-objectives required to achieve the targeted results; 
14 
 