In Hera SpA(cid:859)s service area, ATERSIR has established an additional bonus for the supply of water as a further 
protection measure (Resolution CAMB 45/2018). 
In Pesaro and Urbino, a facility has been provided for households of more than 4 people, by doubling of the 
consumption brackets, upon request at a customer desk of Marche Multiservizi. 
In addition, from 2018, AcegasApsAmga plans to apply the tariff methods contained in the Consolidated Act 
of Water Service Fees (Resolution 665 /2017 -TICSI), which defines a per capita tariff structure for resident 
household use, and the Social Water Service Bonus to support families in conditions of financial and social 
hardship, as already done in the energy sectors. 
 
Regarding waste management services, a total or partial exemption from the payment of Tari or quantity-
based tariff may be granted in favour of subjects facing conditions of serious social and welfare hardship. 
The municipalities allocate the funds for these benefits according to the income of the applicants. In some 
areas of Emilia-Romagna, discounts apply to individuals living alone that are affected by over 60% of 
permanent invalidity.  
Hera’s initiatives to support users facing financial hardship 
Hera allows customers in financial difficulty to pay their bills in instalments. Households facing financial 
hardship (that are not behind with any payments, including instalments previously granted) are allowed to 
pay their bills in three instalments, applying an interest rate equal to the FCA (the official reference interest 
rate at which the European Central Bank grants loans to other banks and equal to 0% at 16/03/2016) 
increased by 3.5%. For amounts over Euro 2,000, Hera reserves the right to carry out more accurate checks 
before granting the instalment plan. In certain cases of financial hardship (customers using the temporary 
state layoff fund, or on unemployment benefits, beneficiaries of the income support fund of the Emilia-
Romagna Bilateral Agency or customers who are unemployed as a result of the reduction or termination of 
their employment) the number of instalments is increased to 6, interest-free. In addition, subject to 
approval of social workers, the instalments may be increased to nine. This procedure is also applied to 
professionals and small condominiums.  
Businesses facing financial difficulty can also ask to pay Hera in instalments. In these cases Hera grants 
similar conditions after checking their creditworthiness. 
AcegasApsAmga offers its customers the opportunity to postpone the due date of their bills or to agree on 
a repayment plan in 3 instalments. In both cases, the sums of the instalments may be increased by interest 
at the rate set by the ECB (0%). In addition, the company grants customers in particularly difficult economic 
conditions additional favourable payment terms. 
In the service area of Marche Multiservizi, the company grants payment of the bills by instalments to 
customers that are experiencing financial hardship, provided that they have always paid their previously 
granted instalments. Payment by instalments for residential customers concerns only bills over Euro 100. 
The instalments are agreed with the users in proportion to the amounts of the bills issued and up to 4 
instalments may be allowed, except in special cases agreed with the social services of the municipalities, 
where multiple instalments can be agreed. In these latter cases of financial hardship (customers using the 
temporary state lay-off fund, or on unemployment benefits, beneficiaries of the income support from 
municipalities or customers who are unemployed as a result of the reduction or termination of their 
employment and assisted by social services) the instalments are interest-free. For users that fall within the 
above procedure, an interest rate equal to the FCA is granted (the official reference interest rate at which 
the European Central Bank grants loans to other banks and equal to 0% at 16/03/2016) increased by 3%. 
This procedure is also applied to professionals and small condominiums. In particular, for businesses, 
payment by instalments is authorized following checks on their level of solvency. 
132 
 