month after the invoice(cid:859)s due date. The customer may request to pay the bill in instalments, up to the time 
the supply is disconnected. If the disconnection involves condominium users, Hera informs thee residents 
individually before disconnecting the service.  
As concerns the supply of water, until February 2014 Hera limited or disconnected its supply in compliance 
with  the  provisions of  the  Integrated  Water  Service  Charter  and with  the  regulations  of  competent 
authorities in force. In March 2014 Hera voluntarily decided that in the event of late payments by 
residential customers or mixed-type customers, it would limit the service in all Emilia-Romagna and 
Triveneto areas served but never disconnect it.  
If it is not possible to disconnect the service (e.g. the meter cannot be accessed) an additional notice is sent 
to the customer to inform that the service will be disconnected (connection cut off) should they fail to pay 
their bill in the set timeframe. For energy services, (gas, electricity, district heating), if the disconnection is 
not technically feasible, the selling party may terminate the contract and activate the last resort services.  
In addition, the updated SOStegno Hera guide is available on the Group(cid:859)s website, and it contains all the 
information necessary on the opportunities of reducing expenses for energy and water services, reserved 
for customers in difficult economic and/or physical conditions. It also provides information on how to pay 
bills in instalments and what to do in the event of late payments. The guide also explains how users can 
benefit from the social bonuses for electricity, gas, water and district heating, and who to contact in the 
event of water leaks. Lastly, it provides advice on good practices for reducing consumption, actively 
contributing to the responsible use of environmental resources. A new version of SOStegno Hera will be 
updated and released during 2019. The distribution will affect all the areas where Hera provides energy 
services, i.e. those that have the greatest impact on household budgets. 
Placement under supply contracts with social cooperatives 
In 2018, the value of supplies by types of work or services requested by the Hera Group to social 
cooperatives remained over Euro 62 million. 
Over Euro 61 million was assigned for waste management services, amounting to 27.4% of the Group(cid:859)s 
total awards for these services. Supplies involved 49 cooperatives or consortia of social cooperatives, hiring 
816 persons facing hardship (pursuant to Article 4 of Italian Law 381/91), slightly up compared to 2017: 558 
under open-ended employment agreements and 392 under full-time contracts. At geographic level, 348 
individuals found jobs in the Emilia area, 335 in Romagna, 84 in Triveneto and 49 in Marche.  
Supplies from social cooperatives 
  2016  2017  2018 
Social cooperatives or consortia (number)  50  48  49 
Value of supplied goods/services (in 
57,180  62,654  62,158 
thousands of Euro) 
Persons facing hardship hired (number)  748  807  816 
Workers employed for less than one year were also counted among the hired persons facing hardship. 
The  Valoris  economic  evaluation  model  developed  by  the  University  of  Brescia  in  2013  provides  a 
measurement of the value created by social entrepreneurship of job placement, based on the results of 
empirical research. In particular, the model makes it possible to quantify the economic impact for the 
Public Administration of the social integration of type B social cooperatives. The research showed that the 
benefits essentially are a result of lower welfare costs and greater tax revenues due to the payment of 
income tax on the employment of disadvantaged persons. The lower revenues for the Government deriving 
from tax and contribution exemptions which type B social cooperative benefit from have been deducted 
from the benefits. All of this ends up being a benefit for the Public Administration equal, on average, to 
Euro 4,209 in the year for each able-bodied individual facing hardship. The economic benefit for Public 
134 
 