Lead-on employment 
In order to globally assess Hera Group(cid:859)s social repercussions on Italy, however, we should also take into 
account the employment at our suppliers who supply goods, various services or support certain stages of 
the company process. 
Lead-on employment can be estimated as the portion of the workforce of the suppliers which carries out 
activities on behalf of the Hera Group. In 2018, lead-on employment generated an estimated 8,120 jobs of 
which over 2,836 in Emilia, 1,956 Romagna, 1,004 in Triveneto, 548 in Marche and 1,776 in other areas. 
This figure was obtained by analysing the financial statements of the Group(cid:859)s leading suppliers which cover 
80% of the volume purchased in 2018. In order to estimate the lead-on employment generated, the ratio 
between the value commissioned by Hera and the total sales turnover of the supplier was considered; 
this percentage was multiplied by the number of total employees declared in the suppliers(cid:859) financial 
statements. 
The further actions for social responsibility in tenders 
Hera Group(cid:859)s employment impact is also due to concrete actions of social responsibility in tenders, which 
the Group continued to implement in 2018, so as to effectively implement social responsibility in tenders 
on a consistent basis with the standards expressed in the Group(cid:859)s Code of Ethics and with the matters 
required by the SA 8000-compliant management system on attention towards the work conditions in the 
supply chain. 
As for 2017, again in 2018 we applied the Memorandum of Understanding regarding tenders, entered into 
on 26 October 2016, by the Hera Group and the National Trade Union Organizations. In addition to 
specifying the sectorial National Collective Labour Agreement to apply to the main business sectors, the 
Procurement Protocol also governs aspects related to employment continuity, requiring application of the 
social clause, of (cid:862)voluntary(cid:863) application (i.e. when not directly due to the specific NCLA), in particular in the 
area of regulated and labour-intensive sectors, in labour contracts and services relating to activities after 
first intervention on networks and services related to the management of the relationship with the final 
customer (meter reading and auxiliary metering activities), for new contracts for services that have been 
already outsourced.  
This social clause requires the new contractor must make a job offer that is consistent with the overall 
conditions in force at the time of the contract change such as retribution, professional requirements and 
duration of the contract to the personnel that is employed on a permanent basis and employed directly and 
mainly in the activities covered by the contract in force at the operator leaving the company in the period 
of 90 days prior to the start of the new management. In all the other cases of takeover of tenders, a prior 
meeting must take place among the outgoing contractor, the new contractor and the local trade unions to 
assess any possible solution to safeguard employment. 
The most important tenders to which the Procurement Protocol rules described above were applied were 
the following 23 (of which 2 for AcegasApsAmga): 
NATIONAL 
Amount  Duratio
Legal  COLLECTIVE 
Type  Description  (Euro  n  Clause 
entity  LABOUR 
million)  (years) 
AGREEMENT 
Negotiated  Emergency services and  Voluntary social 
Hera S.p.A.  77  2  Construction 
procedure  scheduled maintenance work  clause 
Inrete 
Support for emergency 
Negotiated  Distribuzion Voluntary social 
services and scheduled  34.7  2  Construction 
procedure  e Energia  clause 
maintenance work 
S.p.A. 
Negotiated  Specialist mechanical  Hera Group  30.7  4  Metalworking  Social clause 
139 
 