 
Hera(cid:859)s commitment to sustainability and energy efficiency also affects the supply chain and in particular 
the  criteria  used  to  choose  suppliers.  Given  the  high  environmental  impact  of  waste  management, 
especially in terms of atmospheric emissions, the Group has decided to reward the best-performing 
suppliers in this field, favouring those who use low environmental impact vehicles. 
In 2018, excluding Marche Multiservizi, waste management service providers used approximately 2,400 
vehicles for waste collection. Of these, 12% has low environmental impact (6% use LPG, 5% use methane 
and 1% is electric) and over 60% is classified Euro 5/6. In 2018, the number of vehicles in the Euro 6 
emissions stage increased by 215; these vehicles partly replaced vehicles with greater environmental 
impact and partly were additional compared to 2017. There was also an increase in light vehicles (+296 
units) at the expense of heavy vehicles (-95 units) due to the increase in home collection services provided 
by suppliers. 
Supplier(cid:859)s vehicles (%)
Breakdown of vehicles by anti-pollution directive 
1% class (%)
6% 4%
5%
5%
6%
31% 14%
16%
82%
30%
Diesel Petrol Natural gas Euro 1 Euro 2 Euro 3
Lpg Electric Euro 4 Euro 5 Euro  6
 
Excluding Marche Multiservizi  
 
Mobility management 
In 2018, actions continued to reduce the environmental impact of Group employee commutes. These 
included the continuation of the shuttle bus service in Bologna that connects Stazione Centrale (Central 
Station) with the offices in Viale Berti Pichat, Via del Frullo/Via Cristina Campo and the Imola Station to the 
offices in Via Molino Rosso e Via Casalegno.  
Furthermore, to encourage sustainable transport, Hera has joined the Bella Mossa initiative, organized by 
the Municipality of Bologna, which aims to promote sustainable ways for workers to go to their workplaces, 
by rewarding those who travel on foot, by bike, by bus, by train or by car sharing and car pooling. 
In 2018, over 200 staff members took advantage of special discounts on annual public transport passes: 
50% for the services provided by T-per (urban public transport company in the Bologna and Ferrara area) 
and 45% for those run by Trenitalia.  
During the year, the Group participated in the PUMS (Urban Sustainable Transport Plan) programmes of 
some cities in Emilia Romagna. These plans contribute significantly to achieving the climate and energy 
objectives set by the EU Member States, aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030.  
Lastly, the new Bologna office in Viale Berti Pichat has been equipped with about 100 new covered bicycle 
stalls, thus continuing our commitment to facilitate the adoption of sustainable means of transport. 
156 
 