Hera, Iren, Smat and A2A together to improve the integrated water service 
On 8 April 2014 Hera, Iren and Smat signed a 5-year partnership agreement to carry out applied research to 
develop joint research, innovation and training projects in the sectors and activities connected with the 
integrated water service. 
Three projects were developed in 2017-2018, on:  
•  breakage of aqueduct networks: analysis and decision support systems;  
•  integrated  environmental  modelling  used  to  assess  the  impact of  intense weather  events to 
support the management of urban drainage networks;  
•  recovery of material from the urban wastewater purification cycle: struvite.  
The latter was coordinated by Hera and was the subject of reporting in a Beacon Event of Ecomondo 2018 
organized by the European Platform on Phosphorus, an event supported by the Hera Group. 
At the end of 2018 the Partnership Agreement was extended to A2A. 
For the 2019-2020 period we plan to develop further projects related to:  
•  recovery of material from the urban wastewater purification cycle, the PHA for the production of 
bioplastics (coordinated by Hera);  
•  early warning systems for monitoring the microbiological quality of drinking water (coordinated by 
Iren); 
•  control systems of the production of chlorites and chlorates in drinking water, monitoring of 
Legionella in the aqueduct networks (coordinated by A2A). 
Besides the specific issues of each project, sharing the diverse experiences and approaches helps critically 
analyse the methods used, so as to set up a network of relationships - both within the companies and with 
the relevant external qualified partners - that will surely be very useful even after the end of the projects. 
Forlì remote control hub 
The Remote Control Centre of Forlì is the heart of Hera Group(cid:859)s plants and networks: this facility is unique 
in Italy, and controls over 5,600 plants. Among the main innovative development and evolution projects 
implemented in 2018: 
•  Cloud  Upgrading,  which  provided  better  interaction  between  map  and  systems  (<2  sec); 
significantly increased speed (updates <3 sec) and the possibility for the operating structures to 
autonomously (cid:862)take charge(cid:863) of the systems in the cloud without the need to call the Technical Call 
Centre Room and have the operator deal with it.  
•  Cameras Project, to allow internal staff to view plant sections. The project became operational in 
October, installing the first cameras in the plants of the Rimini wastewater drainage system.  
•  Satellite Vector, to allow the connection of (cid:862)isolated(cid:863) plants that currently could not connect (lack 
of GPRS coverage) or as a redundant system for critical and/or important plants. Ten systems have 
been installed that are shared with the Hera group(cid:859)s internal operating structures.  
•  Voice commands, to make the experience of using the device for operational activities faster and 
more efficient. 
•  3D plants: the innovative function developed in 2017 for the Forlì and Servola (TR) treatment plants 
has been extended to other plants. This function provides a very realistic 3D overview of the plant 
with the integrated representation of all functional parameters.  
Il Rifiutologo, an app for separate waste collection and more: over 300 thousand citizens use it! 
Il Rifiutologo is a free app for mobile devices with several features, also available online.  
159 
 