During the 2017-2018 school year, Hera Group awarded the 40 schools (with Euro 2,500 per school) in the 
area  that  have  reached  the  highest  score.  Projects  carried  out  by  the  winning  schools  include:  the 
development of computer study rooms; the purchase of 3D printers, interactive multimedia whiteboards, 
desktop  computers,  trolleys  for  storing  and  recharging  notebooks  and  tablets,  robotics  kits  and  the 
purchase of tablets for autistic students.  
The value of this initiative also lies in the construction of a partnership between the company, customers, 
municipalities and schools, to create shared value. 
With the launch of its new 2018-2019 edition, Digi e Lode is doubling its prize money by offering an 
additional Euro 100,000 for the digitalization of schools. It is the same mechanism: every time a customer 
activates one of the digital services offered by the Hera Group, it donates 1 point that can be assigned to a 
specific  school  (this  way  it  is  multiplied  by  5)  or  distributed  among  the  schools  of  the  customer(cid:859)s 
Municipality. During the school year, the Hera Group will award 40 more local schools that have reached 
the highest score.  
The digital services of the Hera Group that contribute to the project are: 
On-line services, to manage services on the website; 
•  Information and support apps for virtuous behaviours (Acquologo and Rifiutologo);  
•  Service app (My Hera) for fast and easy management of contracts; 
•  Electronic billing, to receive it quickly while respecting the environment; 
•  Direct debit, to pay bills easily and on time; 
•  Digital self-meter reading (using On Line Services, the app, SMS or on the phone with automatic 
answering system); 
•  Hera Fast Check Up, to be helped to reduce gas and electricity waste. 
•   
Economic development and social inclusion 
The (cid:862)water leak fund(cid:863) 
In July 2014, Hera S.p.A defined a joint regulation across all the areas it serves that sets up a (cid:862)leak fund(cid:863) to 
protect customers in the event of water leaks in their plumbing system, i.e. downstream from the meter. 
This voluntary instrument partially covers bills of even very high amounts that are due to accidental and 
unknown leaks within a customer(cid:859)s own plumbing system. By paying Euro 15 per year in their bill, 
participating customers can receive, for hidden water leaks within their system, a reimbursement for the 
entire amount for the volumes that exceed their usual average consumption by 80%, up to a maximum of 
Euro 10,000.  
Participation in the fund is not compulsory and customers may withdraw at any time by simply asking to do 
so. 
The (cid:862)leak fund(cid:863) is exclusively designed to cover the additional costs incurred by customers that have a 
water leak.  
162 
 