Per capita tariff facilitates large households because the water consumption charged a lower rate (the 
price of the reduced rate is 50% of the basic rate) is proportional to the number of members of the 
household. As per capita consumption increases, the cost increases very significantly, so this mechanism 
rewards households that consume less. 
In the provinces of Bologna and Modena and in the Municipality of Faenza (79 municipalities in total), Hera 
already applies per capita tariff to resident households based on the actual number of members. In all the 
other areas managed, the standard per capita tariff will be applied and gradually the real composition of 
the household will be used, without prejudice to the possibility for the user to provide a self-declaration. 
In 2018, 16 municipalities in Triveneto (Abano Terme, Arzergrande, Brugine, Codevigo, Correzzola, Legnaro, 
Padova, Piove di Sacco, Polverara, Pontelongo, Sant(cid:859)Angelo di Piove di Sacco, Cona, Trieste, Muggia, San 
Dorligo and Duino Aurisina) also shifted to per capita tariff. 
When environmental and social sustainability go hand-in-hand 
Hera continues to be committed to initiatives dedicated to the support and social inclusion of people in 
difficulty  and  in  disadvantaged  conditions,  through  the  following  initiatives  that  have  proven  to  be 
effective. 
The (cid:862)RAEEbilitando(cid:863) project, initiated in 2010 with the collaboration with the Consorzio Remedia, the 
Opera dell(cid:859)Immacolata Onlus (OPIMM) and Tred Carpi Srl, continued its activity until 30 June 2018, when 
the protocol expired. The partners then agreed to terminate the activity, which had been carried out in the 
Laboratory of Bologna, to allow OPIMM to plan and implement a set of measures to restructure the 
premises and to reorganize the logistical management of the spaces used for the various activities carried 
out within the Laboratory. The intention, however, is to be able to resume operation of the project from 
July 2020. In all these years of activity, children and adults in disadvantaged conditions have worked in the 
laboratory  providing  their  energy  and  their commitment  to  disassemble  132,000  kilograms  of  small 
electrical and electronic equipment into about 20 smaller categories of parts, thus ensuring for each of 
them the most appropriate type of recovery or recycling. 
The (cid:862)Manolibera(cid:863) project, active since 2011, in collaboration with the Forlì Prison and the Techne Training 
Institute, involves operating, within the penitentiary, a quality artisan paper mill that produces, using an 
ancient Arab-Chinese processing technique, paper products of high artistic and ecological value. Coop. 
Sociale Onlus CILS of Cesena is responsible for monitoring and verifying the activities carried out in this 
laboratory, which are reported regularly. The Berti Bindery is responsible for commercial and marketing 
management and over the past year it has participated in trade fairs and events and for  (cid:862)wedding 
planning(cid:863), in constant search for new marketing and collaboration channels. Relations with the national 
prison economy network (cid:862)Freedhome(cid:863) have also been consolidated. In 2018, 4 prisoners were involved in 
the laboratory and our partners are considering the implementation of a new funded training program, in 
which five more people will be able to participate. 
The (cid:862)RAEEincarcere(cid:863) project was confirmed in 2018 for a further three years. This project, that started 
more than a decade ago at the Prisons of Forlì, Ferrara and Bologna, was developed starting from a study 
and joint collaboration between Hera and the Techne Training Institute. These partners were joined by the 
Emilia-Romagna Regional Government and many other Bodies, such as the Ecolight Recovery Consortium, 
and local organizations. By doing so the objective of the project, namely the social and working inclusion of 
men and women who are paying for crimes or detained, has been guaranteed for all these years, allowing 
them to return to legality and the civil life of the community. Within the 3 Prisons there are still active 
laboratories where prisoners alternate training and further education activities, acquiring all the skills and 
knowledge necessary to disassemble small and large waste electrical and electronic equipment from the 
Waste Collection Centers managed by Hera. A range of components are obtained from this activity and are 
separately sent to suitable plants for recovery of material. The results obtained by the labs continue to 
increase. On the social front, 34 former prisoners were hired or helped to find jobs in local companies and 
more than 101 attended training courses thanks to the collaboration and commitment of the social 
164 
 