cooperatives that coordinate and manage the laboratories. From an environmental point of view, in a 
decade of activity the laboratories treated about 4,915,000 kg of waste electrical and electronic equipment. 
In 2018, we laid the foundations for two more years of the collaboration called (cid:862)Informatica Solidale(cid:863), a 
joint project of Hera and the Techne Training Institute, designed to promote computer literacy and to 
reintegrate people with disabilities into the world of work and social life, with the further objective of 
promoting the reuse of assets with residual use potential.  
Under the Project, Hera will give away free of charge its own IT equipment (no longer suitable for its own 
business and therefore to be disposed of disposal but perfectly able to satisfy the basic needs of users such 
as those identified and protected by the Project) and Techne will take care of the functional updating and 
testing, the identification of the recipients and the management of the deliveries. The recipients of such 
(cid:862)regenerated(cid:863) IT equipment have been identified mainly among institutional, public and private local 
organizations, whose vocation is to support the inclusion and integration of disadvantaged people through 
services and initiatives (educational, training, empowerment) that can find real benefit and strengthening 
from the availability of appropriate technological tools. In this context, the donated equipment made it 
possible to set up of computer labs at schools, cooperatives/social enterprises and social promotion 
associations, prisons and education centres for adults at risk of (cid:862)social exclusion(cid:863). In 2018, 100 computers 
were decommissioned and made available to local associations and at the end of the year the process of 
allocation and delivery of a further batch of equipment was started, which will be completed in the early 
months of 2019. The new edition of the project, which we strongly desire, based on the results and the 
interest obtained by the past edition management, will extend the local catchment area, extending it to 
beneficiaries in all the provinces where Hera is present as a service provider. The (cid:862)Informatica Solidale(cid:863) 
project will once again contribute to social support and environmental protection. 
Development of occupation and new skills 
Hera Educational and the joint school-work experience courses 
In 2018, the Group continued its activities with the Hera Educational system by creating school-work 
alternation courses based on a model that involves the integration of company and school skills, and by the 
renewal of the three-year memorandum of understanding with the Regional School Office for Emilia-
Romagna.  
In the first three years of the 2016-2018 protocol, 212 joint school-work experience courses were created 
(72 of which in 2018).  
Furthermore, the (cid:862)Hera teaches you a trade…at school(cid:863) initiative continued, as a development of the 
Scuola dei Mestieri, and focused on planning and developing educational activities, with the participation 
of Group employees acting also as teachers, at technical institutes based in the local area of reference 
(currently in the areas of Forlì, Modena and Ravenna).  
In 2018, we also started designing an experimental project for the curvature of educational paths with a 
view to strategic workforce management for the entire three-year period of the (cid:862)Meccanica Energia(cid:863) 
initiative, that focuses on technical and operational trades in the field of operation and maintenance of gas 
networks and plants. 
Dissemination of an ecologically responsible mentality: plant tours  
The Hera Group, through its subsidiary Herambiente SpA, proves its attention to environmental issues and 
the diffusion of an ecologically responsible mentality, offering the possibility of guided tours of waste 
treatment and wastewater purification plants. 
Such visits provide stakeholders with insight into how installations are operated and work. Our waste 
treatment plants are among the most advanced in Europe in terms of operating and quality standards and 
165 
 