years. Hestambiente and Arpav have carried out some environmental studies in addition to those required 
by the legislation in force and by the authorizations. In more detail, we managed the operation of two of 
HestAmbiente(cid:859)s fixed air quality monitoring stations (to monitor SO2, CO, O3, NOx, PM10 and PM2.5 with 
automatic equipment and publish on Arpav(cid:859)s website a page dedicated to waste-to-energy plant data, 
validated by Arpav itself). An annual air quality monitoring campaign was carried out using a mobile lab 
provided to Arpav by Hestambiente. We sampled the soil at 5 sites near the waste-to-energy plant, and 
performed  laboratory  analyses on  it  for  the  metals:  Pb,  As, Cd,  Ni, and  Hg,  for  aromatic  polycyclic 
hydrocarbons, dioxins, furans and PCBs and we measured the sound pressure levels around the plant. All 
the surveys summarized above highlighted negligible environmental impacts of the plant. Hestambiente 
has already expressed its willingness to sign a three-year extension of the agreement that will soon expire, 
and to continue its activities even while awaiting the formalization of the new agreement. 
In the area surrounding the Isernia waste-to-energy plant, in agreement with ARPA Molise, a series of 
representative monitoring points have been identified at which studies on atmospheric depositions and 
PM  atmospheric particulate sampling have been carried out in the 2017-2018 two-year period. At all 
2.5
monitoring points, the annual average PM  was below the regulatory limit, and the deposition study 
2.5
showed values for organic micropollutants (dioxins, PAHs) always below the instrumental detection limits. 
Transparency of waste-to-energy plant emissions 
Since 2008, the Group(cid:859)s website has provided the previous day(cid:859)s average emission values and (cid:862)half-hourly 
averages(cid:863) of the Group(cid:859)s waste-to-energy plants (every half hour the online data are updated with the 
average value of the past 30 minutes). The data are automatically transmitted by the detection systems, 
operational 24/7 in all the Group(cid:859)s plants, located in the provinces of Bologna, Ferrara, Forlì-Cesena, 
Modena, Ravenna, Rimini and Isernia. 
As a further guarantee of transparency, Hera commits to: 
•  daily or weekly reporting of the half-hour and daily averages to the control agency (ARPA); 
•  yearly reporting on the plant(cid:859)s operations, by 30 April every year, to the competent authorities 
(Provinces) and control agency (ARPA); 
•  if  the  plant  is  EMAS  registered, the  control  results  are  published  upon  formalization  of  the 
(cid:862)Environmental Declaration(cid:863); 
•  publishing  annual  data,  compared  to  regulatory  limits  and  authorized  limits,  in  the  Group(cid:859)s 
Sustainability Report. 
Since 2015 the website also provides the data of the Padua and Trieste plants, in the same format (half 
hour average updated in real time). 
Lastly, from 2018 on, average annual data on periodic self-checks on metals and organic micropollutants 
has also been available for all plants. 
Increasing usage of telepresence 
Telepresence is increasingly proving to be a facilitator to manage meetings, saving time, reducing risk and 
fatigue,  significantly  saving  energy  and,  last  but  not  least,  helping  to  reduce  the Group(cid:859)s  ecological 
footprint.  
In 2018, 95 offices were connected by telepresence (+35% compared to the previous year), for a total of 
23,874 meetings (+19%) and about 30,785 hours of use (+24%).  
The further increase in terms of both of sessions and of hours of use of Hera Group(cid:859)s telepresence rooms is 
due to an increase of the perimeter of the rooms, as well as to a more marked use of the clients installed 
on the company(cid:859)s PCs. 
169 
 