Urban and environmental renovation of the viale Berti Pichat area in Bologna 
In December 2018, the environmental and functional requalification works of the Holding Company(cid:859)s 
Bologna office in Viale Carlo Berti Pichat (about 70,000 m2 of total surface area) were completed, per the 
urban requalification agreement for the area signed on 3 May 2016 and the operational project for 
environmental remediation authorized by the Municipality of Bologna on 13 April 2016. 
The environmental reclamation of the area has been carried out by excavating and removing the historical 
landfill and contaminated soil and, where applicable, by treating the soil and groundwater with ISCO 
methods. For all the phases of soil reclamation, ARPAE verified compliance with the objectives set by the 
project with reference to the work carried out and, as a result of these checks, it was possible to start the 
urban planning works for the construction of green areas, new roads and new internal parking lots. During 
the works, monitoring of the air and water environmental media for the site continued over the entire 
area, with the frequency agreed with the regulators. At the same time, in addition to the analyses currently 
performed by companies at the job-sites, the Quality, Safety and Environment Department continued 
monitoring, focusing on the impacts that the job-sites could have had on the health of workers at the 
corporate office. 
The  environmental  remediation  of  groundwater  with  ozone  and  ISCO  will  continue  until  reaching 
effectiveness up until June 2019 and December 2019, respectively, although Hera is not responsible for the 
pollution of the area. 
In 2018, two meetings were held (on 19 April and 25 July) with workers’ Safety Representatives (WSR) to 
report and share the progress, the scheduling of the work, and the monitoring results. Hera has always 
worked in full and complete respect of the law, for the protection of workers and residents, and under the 
control of the supervisory bodies. 
In 2018 we completed the major plan to replace asbestos roofs of buildings throughout our service area. 
Starting in 2016, more than 28 thousand m2 of roof were replaced. 
As part of this work, three underground tanks of different capacities no longer in use were also removed. 
The monitoring activities of the work completed in the area of the holding company(cid:859)s headquarters in 
Bologna will continue until the first half of 2022.  
The new LED lighting of the entire external area of the holding company(cid:859)s headquarters was also installed, 
also involving the architectural lighting of the gasometer located inside the historic (cid:862)Gas Workshop(cid:863). 
Concerning the new lighting of the company(cid:859)s offices, in 2018 a multi-year plan was launched to replace 
the external lighting fixtures of all the group(cid:859)s main offices with LED fixtures. In particular, in addition to 
the Bologna office, the replacement of external LED lighting in the Modena office in Via Razzaboni and in 
the Ravenna office in Via Romea was also completed. In addition, projects started at the offices of: Bologna 
in Via del Frullo-Cristina Campo, Rimini in Via Terrapieno-Strada Consolare and Cesena in Via Spinelli where 
work is scheduled for 2019.  
The new contract for the supply and installation of MFD equipment was launched as part of the internal 
equipment of the offices, in line with the CAM criteria defined by the Ministry, to achieve sustainability, 
energy efficiency and lower emissions of inkjet machines compared to laser printers, with obvious benefits 
 
both in terms of reduced consumption and lower emissions of particulate. 
170 
 