Among the 15 members of the Board of Directors of Hera Spa, five directors are aged between 30 and 50, 
eight directors are aged between 50 and 60, and two directors are over 60 years of age.  
As set forth in the Code of Conduct of Borsa Italiana, the annual report on corporate governance sets out 
the requisites for the non-executive, independent directors of Hera Spa. The remuneration paid to Hera Spa 
directors is illustrated in the remuneration report. 
Board of Directors of Hera Spa 
Executive  Independent 
Office  Name and Surname  Committees* 
Director  Director 
Tomaso Tommasi di Vignano 
Chairman  X    EXEC 
(1) 
Managing Director  Stefano Venier (1)  X    EXEC 
Vice Chairman  Giovanni Basile (1)    X  EXEC, REM, CONT 
Director  Francesca Fiore (2)    X  REM 
  Giorgia Gagliardi (1)    X   
  Massimo Giusti (3)    X  REM, ET 
  Sara Lorenzon (1)    X  CONT 
  Stefano Manara (1)    X  REM 
  Danilo Manfredi (1)    X   
  Alessandro Melcarne (1) **    X  EXEC 
  Erwin P.W. Rauhe (2)    X  CONT 
  Duccio Regoli (2)    X  CONT 
  Federica Seganti (1) **    X  ET 
  Marina Vignola (1)    X   
  Giovanni Xilo (1)    X   
* EXEC: Executive Committee; REM: Remuneration Committee; CONT: Control and Risks Committee; ET: Ethics and 
Sustainability Committee 
** on 8 November 2018, further to the resignation as from the same date of Prof. Federica Seganti as member of the 
Executive committee, Hera(cid:859)s Board of Directors appointed Mr. Alessandro Melcarne as her replacement. As of the 
same date Prof. Federica Seganti was appointed as member of the Ethics and Sustainability Committee. 
(1) Name taken from list presented by the majority shareholders 
(2) Name taken from list presented by the minority shareholders which obtained the greatest number of votes 
(3) Name taken from list presented by the minority shareholders which obtained the second greatest number of votes 
The Board of Statutory Auditors 
The Board of Statutory Auditors is the corporate body that monitors correct administration, especially 
insofar as the adequacy of the organisational, administrative and accounting structure adopted by the 
directors and its operation. The Board of Statutory Auditors, appointed by the Shareholders(cid:859) Meeting held 
on 27 April 2017, will remain in office until the Shareholders(cid:859) Meeting for approval of the financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2019.  
The Articles of Association establish that the members of the Board of Statutory Auditors are appointed on 
the basis of the lists submitted by the shareholders in order to ensure that the minority appoints the 
Chairman and an alternate auditor, and that the majority appoints the remaining two permanent members 
and one alternate member. Members are appointed in compliance with the equal balance of gender 
required by current laws and regulations. 
The Executive Committee 
The Executive Committee has the duty to express to the Board of Directors an opinion prior to submission 
of the yearly definition of the Group(cid:859)s business plan and the proposed appointments of top level managers. 
Furthermore, it adopts resolutions concerning contracts and agreements related to the corporate purpose 
173 
 