The Risk Committee met 4 times in 2018. 
The ERM approach of the Hera Group 
In the overall design of the risk management process, Hera has adopted a structured approach, which is 
consistent with industry best practice, through the introduction of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). The 
aim is to define a systematic approach that is consistent with risk control and management, by creating an 
effective model with steering, monitoring and representation functions, oriented towards the adequacy of 
the management processes and their compliance with top management(cid:859)s goals. 
The approach is intended to provide the Board of Directors with useful elements for assessing the nature 
and level of business risk, especially over the medium to long term, so as to enable the definition of a risk 
profile that is consistent with the Group(cid:859)s strategic objectives. This definition is expressed through the 
approval of the group risk management policy and of the related risk limits by the Board of Directors. 
In greater detail, the policy defines the Group(cid:859)s orientation towards risk issues and identifies the relevant 
risk management framework, comprising three fundamental elements: 
•  the risk model, which identifies the scope of reference for the risk management analysis carried 
out by the Group. It includes the identification of all risks, or rather the types of risk that the Group 
is potentially exposed to, which are periodically reviewed on the basis of any changes in the 
mission, strategic objectives and scope of the group(cid:859)s business, as well as the social and economic 
context; 
•  the Group(cid:859)s risk appetite, which defines the acceptable risk level in compliance with the risk 
management strategy by means of the identification of: 
•  key risk dimensions, i.e. the most relevant risk factors in respect of which the Group 
intends to express its risk appetite; 
•  risk metrics, necessary for measuring exposure arising from a specific risk factor; 
•  limits associated with each key risk dimension, which express the related maximum risk 
level tolerated by the Group in pursuing its goals; 
•  monitoring, escalation and updating processes, aimed at promptly identifying whether any 
defined risk limits have been exceeded, identifying and implementing corrective actions, 
correctly  monitoring  significant  risk  areas  and  aligning  the  limits  to  the  group(cid:859)s  risk 
appetite; 
•  Risk Management activities, divided into: 
•  enterprise risk management, aimed at analysing the evolution of the Group(cid:859)s overall risk 
profile, the results of which are the tool used to support informed risk-taking and fix the 
strategic goals; 
•  ongoing  risk  management,  which  for  specific  risks  requires  continuous  sector-based 
management  procedures entrusted to special  risk specialists/risk owners,  based upon 
specifically developed processes and methods and formally defined within the risk policies 
of reference. 
The measurement metrics of the impact are of two types: economic-financial and reputational. The 
economic-financial metric identifies a monetary value deriving from the risk scenario, then placed on a 
scale of values from 1 to 4 whose monetary intervals are defined by Hera(cid:859)s Board of Directors. The 
reputational metric measures the entity of the impact on the basis of a scale of values from 1 to 4, 
structured in ambits divided up by each stakeholder potentially impacted, which refer to the seriousness of 
the impact (persistence and extension), also approved by Hera(cid:859)s Board of Directors. The two scales are 
gauged so as to guarantee comparability between the economic and reputational impact at equal level.  
It is hereby disclosed that the 2018 ERM analysis did not highlight risks in key areas either for economic-
financial or reputational impact. With regard to significant risks, by contrast mention is made of the risk 
with  a  reputational impact  deriving  from  possible  proceedings of  supervisory/regulation/investigation 
177 
 