risks  that  have  an  impact  on  the  logical  security  of  information,  the  security  of  information  and 
communication networks, and the reliability of remote control, necessary to ensure adequate service levels 
to customers and operational safety to Hera(cid:859)s fluid and electricity distribution networks.  
Management levers: approach structured on the basis of specific areas in which operational risks arise. In 
general, a significant role is played by prevention investments to reduce the frequency of adverse events 
and by mitigation actions to reduce their severity. The management approach for each type of risk is 
described below. 
•  Risks related to legislation on environmental impacts: the Group(cid:859)s activities are subject to several 
environmental statutes, laws and regulations, including those on CO2 emissions, sewage, and 
hazardous and solid waste management. The Group is able to tackle environmental risks both 
through ongoing monitoring of potential pollution factors so as to ensure the transparency of 
measurements,  and  through  major  investments  in  purification  and  reclamation  plants  that 
guarantee better quality of water compared to the limits provided for by law. The waste collection 
system seeks to increase the percentage of waste treated at selection, recovery and composting 
plants, and reduce the use of landfills, in line with the provisions of national and European 
legislation. Environmental analysis of the sites has been improved to allow more effective data 
collection and determine the significance of environmental aspects in both normal and emergency 
conditions. 
•  Risks associated with regulations on health and safety of workers: the risk related to accidents has 
seen a steady reduction in accident rates thanks to the initiatives aimed at better monitoring and 
improving the protection and prevention processes intended to continually reduce the frequency 
and the severity of accidents, as evidenced by the lower number of accidents, the frequency rate 
and the lower number of days of absence due to injury. 
•  Risks associated with logical and physical security: the Group carries out constant monitoring of 
its  IT  security  risk  level,  with  targeted  interventions  to  ensure  the  availability,  integrity  and 
confidentiality  of  information  managed  by  the  Group.  In  2018,  the  execution  of  measures 
continued aimed at ensuring the integrity and availability of Hera systems, with significant value in 
terms of risk reduction.  
•  Risks related to the interruption of services: many risk factors may influence the regular supply of 
energy and water due to damages to the network, water shortage or possible contamination of 
water reserves, thus leading to interruption of the service or significant damages both of an 
environmental and economic or social nature. In order to tackle these risks, the Group makes 
important investments designed to guarantee the effectiveness and efficiency of the distribution 
system. It also carries out constant monitoring and maintenance of its networks in order to 
guarantee  safety,  quality  and  that  services  are  supplied  constantly  even  in  the  presence  of 
temporary interruptions on one or several distribution lines. Furthermore, growing attention to the 
physical safety of plant sites reduces the likelihood of damage to them. Within this sphere, as from 
2019 an in-depth look was launched at the resilience of the Group water supply and distribution 
system in terms of a medium/long-term perspective having taken into account the possible effects 
which the climate change process underway may produce also in the pertinent areas. 
 
2.  Strategic risks 
Nature: these risks pertain to the formulation of long-term planning, to the implications regarding the 
Group(cid:859)s financial sustainability, to the decisions to take part in activities of strategic importance and to 
appropriate investment decisions. 
Activity areas: strategic risks involve the Hera Group in its entirety. They affect the soundness of the 
strategic planning results envisaged for the various sectors and business units. Achievement of these results 
is conditioned by various internal and external risks that are appropriately simulated, measured and 
checked. 
179 
 