Management levers: In 2015, Hera developed a structured model of strategic risk analysis designed to 
measure the soundness of its business plan. Many adverse risk scenarios were considered, contributing to 
an integrated view of risks with an enterprise-wide logic. The system allows the performance of scenario 
analysis, stress testing, and possible (cid:858)what if(cid:859) events (macroeconomic scenario, competitive environment, 
internal levers and this also allowing the analysis of relevant internal and external risks), carried out by 
formulating  deterministic  and  stochastic  scenarios  through  an  adequate  analysis  of  risk  factors  and 
variables associated to them, and appropriate assessment of the riskiness of the different business sectors. 
This also allows the evaluation and preparation of alternative strategies aimed at mitigating the adverse 
effects identified. 
 
3.  External risks 
3 A. External risks: competitive-regulatory risks 
Nature: risks related to regulatory interventions by sector authorities and the law (particularly on tariffs 
and market structure), to government incentives on renewable sources and sector-related laws, regulated 
businesses related to the concessions of local and national authorities, failure to obtain authorisations, 
permits and licences, as well as the impact expected from changes in the macroeconomic environment, the 
market structure and its liberalisation, the development in supply and demand in energy and environment 
sectors and possible impact on the group(cid:859)s business.  
Activity areas: with regard to the macroeconomic and market scenario, risks mainly affect the Market 
Department, which is exposed due to its sale of electricity and gas to the competitive dynamics and to the 
development of demand, and Herambiente, which is exposed to the variability of the economic cycle. With 
regard to the regulatory component, competitive-regulatory risks affect network business (water, gas and 
electricity distribution) and market business (sale of electricity and gas). They occur during the introduction 
or the modification of economic, organisational and IT requirements which Hera must comply with, as well 
as during possible changes in the market structure caused by them.  
Management levers: approach structured on the basis of specific areas. The management approach for 
each type of risk is described below. 
1.  Liberalisation  of  the  market:  over  the  years,  free-market  business  has  become  increasingly 
important in Hera Group(cid:859)s portfolio, significantly contributing today to the Group(cid:859)s financial results. 
On the one hand, it has reduced the importance of regulated business in the Group(cid:859)s results, while 
on the other, it has exposed the Group to increasing competitive pressure due to the entry of new 
operators and to the development of organised markets. In Italy, especially for the electricity 
business, the Group competes with other national/international producers and traders that sell 
electricity on the Italian market to industrial, commercial and residential customers. Even as 
regards the methane business, the Group must tackle increasing competition both nationally and 
internationally which could lead to a drop in its sales margins. In order to mitigate this risk, the 
Group  has  addressed  the  challenge  of  liberalisation.  On  the  one  hand,  it  has  innovated  its 
commercial offer and improved the timeliness of its offers by increasing its presence and its 
customer base on the free market through cross-selling activities. On the other, it has gained an 
increasing proactive approach towards customer management and satisfied its expectations in 
terms  of  service  quality,  by  completing  the  range  of  services  offered  to  customers  and 
strengthening loyalty. These activities have improved quality and post-sales management service 
costs for customers and at the same time have reduced new customer acquisition costs.  
2.  Risk connected to the macro-economic context: the Group operates mainly in Italy, where the 
economic scenario is still difficult featuring a slowdown in the consumption of energy and in the 
volumes of waste disposed of. The decline in energy demands leads to pressure on trading margins 
that, added to the greater competition on the free market, may impact the Group(cid:859)s profitability. 
Furthermore, changes in the levels of retail energy consumption could require Hera to acquire or 
180 
 