sell additional energy at unfavourable conditions. To this end, in selling energy, the Group has 
maintained flexible supply sources of energy commodities. At the same time, it has developed 
hedging activities to minimise exposure to operational electricity generation risks (not included in 
the Group(cid:859)s core activities) and to long-term contractual gas supply formulas ((cid:862)Take or Pay(cid:863) 
clauses). Regarding waste disposal activities, some old plants were replaced with new generation 
plants  provided  with  more  efficient  and  top-performing  technologies  also  in  terms  of 
environmental impact. 
3.  Changes in the legislative and regulatory framework and revision of tariffs in the regulated 
waste, water and energy sectors: the Group operates in regulated markets or regulated schemes 
in which there is a regulatory risk connected to the definition of the tariff criteria by the national 
Authority (Arera). A change in the legislative and regulatory framework, both at national and 
European level, could have a significant impact on the Group(cid:859)s business thus influencing the 
profitability of the sectors in which Hera carries out its business directly or through its subsidiaries. 
Furthermore,  the  regulated  tariff  regime  and  the  Authority(cid:859)s  regulatory  interventions  could 
establish,  across  several  businesses,  the  application  of  tariffs  to  final  customers  and  of 
remuneration  mechanisms  on  the  invested  capital.  This  could  affect  the  Group(cid:859)s  operating 
performance and results negatively. In order to address this risk, the Group has adopted an 
organisational  structure  that  manages  its  relations  with  national  and  local  Authorities.  The 
structure carries out extensive consultation activities with institutional stakeholders, taking active 
part in the work groups set up by the Authorities and adopting a transparent, collaborative and 
proactive approach towards any situations of instability in the regulatory framework. 
4.  Regulated business risks associated with the concessions of local and national authorities: the 
regulated activities pertaining to waste collection, gas and electricity distribution, integrated water 
and public lighting services are the result of existing concessions with local authorities (in the case 
of the integrated water service, gas distribution, waste management and public lighting) or national 
authorities  (in  the  case  of  electricity  distribution). The  Group  is  subject  to the  risk that  the 
concessions may not be renewed when they expire or, should they be renewed, that conditions at 
least comparable to those currently available are not maintained. This risk, however, is mitigated 
by the presence of a mechanism for reimbursement to be paid to the outgoing operator equal to 
the industrial residual value of the concession. 
5.  Risks connected to failure to obtain authorisations, permits and licences: the Group(cid:859)s ability to 
achieve its strategic objectives could be adversely affected if it is not able to maintain or obtain the 
required licences, authorisations or permits for the regular performance of its business. This risk is 
mitigated by constantly supervising the authorisation processes and taking part actively in working 
tables in order to achieve relevant permits, licences and authorisations. 
 
3 B. External risks: risks related to weather and climate variability 
Nature: risks related to the impact on the Group due to the variability in weather and climate conditions on 
the electricity and gas demand. 
Activity areas: with regard to the meteorological component, risks mainly affect the Central Market 
Department, which is exposed due to its sale of electricity, gas and heat to the variability of demand arising 
from the various meteorological scenarios. 
Management levers: the Group is provided with demand forecasting tools that optimise the use of 
available sources, and with adequate flexibility in the supply sources of energy commodities. It is also 
highlighted that within the context of the long-term trend of climate change, the Hera Group is committed 
to contributing to its mitigation by complying with energy efficiency goals set by the law, by continuing to 
constantly improve production and by encouraging virtuous and responsible consumption by customers to 
reduce CO  emissions and, in general, to minimise environmental impact. In this regard, Hera has created a 
2
special Esco (Energy Service Company) which has among its objectives the development of initiatives for 
181 
 