both business and domestic customers, aimed at promoting the use of efficient energy production with 
environmental benefits in terms of CO  reduction, and the use of efficient and energy-saving technologies 
2
designed to ensure optimal use of energy resources with significant advantages both for consumers and the 
environment. Lastly, the electricity requirements needed to operate the Group(cid:859)s production sites are met 
entirely by means of energy from renewable sources. 
 
3 C. External risks: financial risks related to the energy market 
Nature: risks relating to variations in the prices of energy, gas and other fuels. 
Activity areas: the energy market risks are concentrated in the Central Market Department where the 
buying and selling of electricity and gas determine risk positions arising from the volatility of energy 
commodity prices. 
Management levers: processes have been set up allowing efficient management of procurement and 
hedging activities, with specific focus on skills. The approach adopted by the Group involves a single 
interface for managing risk with regard to the market: Hera Trading, which provides hedging of the Group(cid:859)s 
risk positions through specific portfolios dedicated to fuel and electricity, allowing for unified management 
of  risks  in  compliance  with  the  policies  assigned.  The  approach  has  many  advantages,  such  as  the 
achievement of higher hedging levels, optimisation of costs since resorting less to the market through the 
use of netting positions, greater structuring flexibility with regard to procurement and supply to customers. 
Even in 2018, the process proved to have adequate strength in terms of risk assessment and control, 
ensuring compliance with the limits assigned. 
 
3 D. External risks: financial risks related to the debt market 
Nature: risks related to variations in interest rates, liquidity, credit spread and exchange rates. 
Activity areas: the Group(cid:859)s financial management is centralised in the Administration, Finance and Control 
Department which meets the financing needs and cash management for the Group. 
Management  levers:  structuring  and  implementation  of  processes  for  the  control  and  optimal 
management of financial risks, which makes use of close monitoring of the Group(cid:859)s significant financial 
indicators and of ongoing presence on the reference markets. The best opportunities are seized in order to 
minimise the impact of interest rate volatility and ensure an efficient debt service through the optimisation 
of its structure. The procedures for complying with the requirements under Italian Law 262/2005 to ensure 
that the accounting documents are drafted in a trustworthy manner, are adequately structured and 
implemented. 
 
3 E. External risks: financial risks related to counterparties 
Nature:  risks  relating  to  the  counterparty(cid:859)s  inability  to  fulfil  the  obligations  undertaken,  either  in 
compliance with the economic conditions or in the execution of the contractual provisions (delivery of 
good/service). 
Activity areas: the credit risk has an impact across the Group in the various areas where business is 
conducted: the sale of electricity, gas, heat, waste management recovery and disposal services, and 
telecommunications services. 
Management levers: a structured origination process has been set up in Hera, which is used for specific 
procedures of credit risk management and allows adequate selection of counterparties through credit 
check and/or request for guarantees where appropriate. Positions with customers and counterparties are 
also monitored constantly and structured actions are planned which provide proactive management; where 
appropriate, the Group resorts to external transfer of risk through the optimised use of credit assignment. 
182 
 