The prevention of and the fight against corruption  
The handling and prevention of fraud 
During 2017, the Hera Group drew up Guidelines, in application as from 15 February 2018, for the purpose 
of facilitating the further development and co-ordination of the internal control system supporting the 
prevention and handling of fraud. 
The  Guidelines  assign  roles  and  responsibilities  within  the  sphere  of  the  prevention,  detection  and 
investigation of potential frauds and further conduct within the organisation consistent and in line with the 
principles expressed. They also provide indications with regard to the channels to be used, hardcopy post 
or dedicated e-mail addresses, to report any suspicion of fraud. All the Departments involved must ensure 
the confidentiality of the information received and handle it in a strictly confidential manner protecting the 
identity of the whistle-blower, without prejudice to the legal obligations. 
A work group was set up, under the co-ordination of the Compliance Law No. 262/05 function, which 
developed method-based technical support, (cid:862)self-assessment(cid:863), for the company Departments and the 
Group companies, for the purpose of providing them with elements for self-assessment in the identification 
of the risks and the related prevention controls. This instrument becomes an integral part of the internal 
control system.  
The (cid:862)self-assessment(cid:863) includes:  
•  the types of fraud; 
•  the fraud risks, or which type of action is implemented; 
•  the fraud schemes, or how the fraud is implemented. 
The document includes, by way of example but not limited to, red flags and analytical controls. 
The organisational model for prevention of crimes by the Company 
Italian Legislative Decree No. 231/2001 introduced a regime of administrative liability into the Italian legal 
structure. These measures are applied to entities which commit crimes in their own interest or to their own 
advantage. These crimes may be committed by natural persons acting as representatives, directors or 
managers on behalf of the entities, or by natural persons acting under the supervision of such persons or 
subjected to supervision on their part. 
The Board of Directors of Hera SpA and the main subsidiaries of the Group have adopted an organisation, 
management and control model (231 Model) to ensure conditions of correctness and transparency in 
conducting business and company activities. The model includes the principles of conduct formalised in the 
Code of Ethics. 
The companies provided with a (cid:862)231 Model(cid:863) are: Hera SpA, Acantho, Asa, Frullo Energia Ambiente (Fea), 
Feronia, Hera Comm, Hera Luce, Hera Servizi Energia, Hera Trading, HERAtech, Herambiente, Herambiente 
Servizi Industriali, Hestambiente, Inrete Distribuzione Energia, Uniflotte and Waste Recycling. Furthermore, 
AcegasApsAmga, Energia Base Triesta, Aliplast, Alimpet (these two companies until December 2018), 
AcegasApsAmga Servizi Energetici SpA and Marche Multiservizi are provided with their own (cid:862)231 Model(cid:863). 
All these 22 companies (76% of the total of the companies) include 98.2% of Group employees. 
Following the mapping of sensitive company activities, at risk of the offences included in Italian Legislative 
Decree 231/2001, the Group companies defined specific protocols to be followed in carrying out certain 
activities, and made the consequent information flows available on a periodic basis. These protocols are 
circulated to the entire workforce through the corporate intranet. Their application is monitored during the 
audit phase. In 2018, the management and communication of the confidential, privileged and significant 
information and management of the laboratory activities protocols were up-dated. 
The Internal Auditing Department ensures assistance to the various company units in drawing up and 
implementing  necessary  corrective  action  following  the  audits  and,  for  the  purpose  of  raising  the 
183 
 