awareness of and training the beneficiaries of the 231 Model it held specific courses care of the subsidiary 
companies (Asa and Waste Recycling) which concerned aspects of general importance such as the 231 
Model of the Hera Group, the Group Protocols, the Internal Control System and aspects focused on the 
activities of the same. 
Furthermore in 2018, the process was launched for the definition of a management system for the 
prevention of corruption compliant with the ISO 37001 standard. It is envisaged that certification will be 
obtained for Hera Spa by the end of 2019. 
Risk analysis for definition of the internal audit plan 
The Internal Auditing Department(cid:859)s activities focused on the sectors with the highest risk levels in the Risk 
Assessment, a document that identifies and weighs - through assessment of the Group(cid:859)s business areas and 
of the infrastructure processes - any risk factors and critical points, including the risks of fraud, providing 
details on the level of risk determined for each segment. On the basis of the Audit Plan for the 2016-2018 
period previously approved by the Board of Directors of Hera SpA, the consequent internal audit plan was 
brought to a close over the course of the year. 
With reference to the specific risks related to the topics included within the scope of Italian Legislative 
Decree No. 231/2001, including the corruption-type risks, identified in the 231 Risk Assessment for the 
2016-2018 period, the Supervisory Body in turn carried out the activities set out in the Audit Plan, drawn up 
on  the  basis of  the  risk assessments,  coverage of  new  processes,  regulatory  developments  and  the 
extension of the scope of activities of the companies. 
The Hera Group Internal Auditing Department in 2018, in relation to the Group processes, carried out the 
Risk Assessment with the aim of drawing up an Audit Plan proposal for the three-year period 2019-2022. 
These activities were carried out on the basis of the results of the previous assessments, on the outcomes 
and the key aspects of the audit activities performed, the ERM analysis presented to the Board of Directors 
of Hera S.p.A. in January 2018 and in relation to the sector risks deriving from benchmarks of other 
companies. The assessments, referring to the risk event, were guided and gauged in relation to the type of 
the processes or the business: the drivers which supported the assessments and the prioritization of the 
risk aspects took into account the peculiarities of the Group. The 231/01 risk offences have been identified 
by macro-processes, assessed ad hoc and included in the risk assessments within the sphere of the 
compliance risks. 
 
Managing sustainability 
In order to ensure that social responsibility and sustainability are an integral part of corporate planning 
and management, in May 2005, the Board of Directors of Hera Spa set up a Corporate Social Responsibility 
organisation unit, reporting to the Managing Director, which has been a Department since 2010. Hera has 
thus been one of the first companies in Italy to endow itself with a unit dedicated to corporate social 
responsibility. As from 1 March 2019, on a consistent basis with the development process undertaken in 
the last few years, the CSR Department was renamed the Shared Value and Sustainability Department. 
Management  is  responsible  for  proposing  and  defining  the  company  guidelines  on  corporate  social 
responsibility  and  on  the  creation  of  shared  value  as  well  as  the  policies  concerning  reporting  and 
accountability of the shared value and on sustainability; it oversees the balanced scorecard system, drafts 
the reporting on sustainability and proposes initiatives within the CSR/CSV sphere; it works together on the 
stakeholder engagement initiatives and is responsible for the periodic up-date of the Group(cid:859)s Code of 
Ethics. The SVS director is a member of the Group(cid:859)s Ethics and Sustainability Committee.  
 The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) function is present in AcegasApsAmga; it reports to the Executive 
Director and ties in with the General Manager, and is responsible for co-ordinating, supplementing and 
applying - in the geographic and corporate context managed - the company guidelines relating to corporate 
social responsibility, as well as the policies regarding reporting and accountability on sustainability and 
184 
 