ensuring the drafting of specific reports and KPIs regarding sustainability and CSR, ensuring information for 
top management on the trend of the pertinent aspects. 
The Code of Ethics 
The Code of Ethics is the document that contains the commitments and ethical responsibilities to be 
implemented by the managers, the workforce and collaborators of the Group for the achievement of 
corporate objectives. The Code of Ethics guides the business management and the individual conduct 
towards the observance of the ethics values and the principles of the functioning of Hera which represent, 
together with the mission, the basis of the principles contained in the articles which make up the Code. 
Supplier qualification is subject to acceptance of the Code and the supply contracts drawn up by the 
Group include termination clauses linked to the failure by suppliers to comply with the principles of the 
Code of Ethics. 
The Code of Ethics was approved by the Board of Directors in 2007 and is subject to checking and up-
dating on a three-yearly basis by means of a participative process which see all the workers and the trade 
unions involved. The current version of the Code of Ethics (the fourth) was approved by the Board of 
Directors in February 2017; during 2019, the fourth participated process for the checking and possible up-
dating of the same will be carried out.  
All the new recruits and the new employees entering the Group further to corporate acquisitions are 
involved in a half-day training session on the contents of the Code of Ethics via the ethical game AlfabEtico. 
Furthermore, since 2013 the Hera Group has undertaken an intense programme for raising awareness on 
the Code of Ethics annually addressing 25-30 managers (management white-collars, middle managers and 
executives) by means of the Corporate Social Responsibility and Code of Ethics in current operations 
seminars. 
The SA8000 Quality, Safety, Environmental and Social Responsibility system 
With regard to the Hera Group, 2018 was characterised by the changeover to a new certification body. In 
2018  a  European  tender  was  called  on  conclusion  of  which  Bureau  Veritas  Italia  was  awarded  the 
certification services on all the schemes existing at the end of 2017 for the three-year period 2018-2020, for 
all the leading companies of the Hera Group. 
Activities were launched in 2018 with the new body for the renewal and maintenance of the various 
certified  schemes.  All  the  certification  activities  concluded  positively  with  the  maintenance  of  the 
certification of the integrated quality, safety and environment, and energy system of Hera Spa and its direct 
subsidiaries  including  Inrete  Distribuzione  Energia,  Uniflotte,  Acantho  and  HERAtech,  as  well  as  the 
Herambiente, AcegasApsAmga and Hera Comm Groups. 
In  2018  Herambiente,  continuing  with  the  process  towards  a  circular  economy,  obtained  the  new 
certification of the biomethane produced and refined care of the Sant(cid:859)Agata Bolognese (BO) plant. This 
certification, envisaged by Italian Ministerial Decree dated 23 January 2012 and compliant with the UNI/TS 
11567  (cid:862)National  certification  system  for  the  sustainability  of  biofuel  and  bioliquids(cid:863)  standard  is 
indispensable for being able to introduce the biomethane into the network as biofuel. It certifies that 
throughout the entire biomethane production chain, the criteria of sustainability have been satisfied for 
the purposes of the traceability and the mass balance. 
With regard to AcegasApsAmga and its subsidiaries, in 2018 progressive interaction of the management 
systems of Hera Luce and AcegasApsAmga Servizi Energetici was carried out and will be completed in 2019 
with the assignment to Bureau Veritas of all the certification services (9001-14001-18001-SA 8000-50001-
11352 and F-Gas) for these companies as well.  
Marche Multiservizi continued with the growth process of its integrated management system, confirming 
in 2018 all the quality, safety, environment and energy certifications with the current Body DNV-GL, and 
185 
 