strategies. Furthermore, to encourage greater participation of the minority shareholders, the percentage of 
share capital required to present a list for the election of the Board of Statutory Auditors has been reduced 
from 3% to 1%, as already envisaged for the election of the Board of Directors. 
 
The breakdown of the shareholding structure 
Hera(cid:859)s past features a peculiar aspect: the Group is considered to be one of the main interpreters of the 
sector consolidation process with a merger model which has involved more than 38 utility companies, 
including the establishment in 2002, and which has ensured more than 40% of the growth of the results in 
the last 16 years. The merger transactions have been financed mainly by the issue of new shares and have 
almost doubled the overall number of shares representing the share capital: from 789 million in 2002 they 
became 1,490 million at the end of 2018. These transactions led to the dilution of the equity investments of 
the shareholders, and corresponding average growth in earnings per share of +9.9%. The creation of value 
took place thanks also to the extraction of synergies and the increased economies of scale. The Group(cid:859)s 
capitalisation at the end of 2018 reached nearly Euro 4.0 billion (compared with Euro 1 billion in 2003). 
The shareholders(cid:859) meeting authorised the exercise of a plan for the repurchase of own shares for a 
maximum of 60 million shares (equal to 4% of the share capital) for the purpose of creating value for the 
shareholders and for use in the event of M&A transactions. 
The expansion of the shareholding structure maintained a constant balance between the public and private 
component, and extended the diversification of the shareholders both in terms of number and geographic 
origin. 
Shareholding structure as at 31 December 2018 
Private 
Public 
free 
sharehol
float; 
48,8% ders(cid:859) 
agreeme
nt 47.9%
Public 
free 
float; 
3,3%
 
ESG financial instruments 
The Green Bond 
In July 2014, the Hera Group - the first in Italy - launched a green bond, with the aim of financing the 
sustainability investments, so as to contribute via its activities to an improved environmental quality. 
The bond issue, availing of the euro medium term notes programme, for a total of 500 million repayable in 
10 years, was illustrated to the investors and analysts via a roadshow which was staged in the main 
European  financial  marketplaces.  The  instrument  aims  to  finance  or  refinance  projects  linked  to 
sustainability in four main spheres: the fight against climate change, reduction in emissions, quality in 
water treatment and the waste cycle. 
196 
 