through the use of indicators inside the Separate Waste Collection Centres and at Hera(cid:859)s customer 
branches; 
•  Sportello in centro (Branch office in the city centre). This initiative regards the opening of a Hera 
branch office for customers in city centres, which will particularly help elderly people (implemented 
in February 2019). 
As in the first edition, the new edition will also have a Euro 150 (cid:862)attendance fee(cid:863) for every member and for 
every meeting which will be used by the LAB to support local sustainability projects promoted by public and 
non-profit organisations. In the Ferrara area, LAB participants decided to donate Euro 7,200 to the Agire 
Sociale Association, while in Ravenna, Euro 3,600 were donated to the Letizia Non-profit Association and 
Euro 3,600 to the National Autism Parents Association. 
The Bologna and Rimini LAB members were appointed in January 2019. Work started in March 2019 with 
the first meeting on the awareness of Hera and on defining the key local issues that will form the LAB(cid:859)s 
work areas.  
Building the future together, a report on community engagement activities 
The involvement and cooperation between companies, citizens, customers, organisations and associations 
are essential to create shared value. By regulating our daily behaviour, we can all become real drivers of 
change and help achieve key goals in terms of sustainability, efficiency and social inclusion. 
Hera(cid:859)s new sustainability report (cid:862)Building the future together(cid:863), available at www.gruppohera.it/report, 
presents all the initiatives in which citizens, customers and organisations play an active role. Companies and 
communities  meet  new  challenges,  generating  long-term  relationships  and  a  tangible  environmental 
and/or social impact. Involvement is achieved through collaboration with local organisations and through 
the implementation of initiatives where the combination of different approaches produces benefits to 
society and the environment. In other cases Hera enhances customers and citizens by providing them with 
tools and knowledge which allow them to produce a positive impact on the environment and society and to 
acquire new awareness. 
In cases where involvement is higher, Hera involves citizens and customers in initiatives that generate 
value for the local area. This category includes, for example, the HeraLABs or (cid:862)Cambia il Finale(cid:863) ((cid:862)Change 
the ending(cid:863)) and (cid:862)FarmacoAmico(cid:863) ((cid:862)MedicineFriend(cid:863)), which with a gesture of solidarity allow over 800 
tonnes of bulky waste still in good use and unexpired pharmaceuticals to be recovered every year and 
donated to non-profit organisations throughout the local area, amounting to a value of Euro 550,000. 
Communication 
Social and environmental communication 
Hera Group(cid:859)s environmental communication in 2018 was based on a simple, direct language, which was 
close to citizens and tailored to the various communication campaigns, all designed to promote effective 
separate waste collection practices and to raise awareness on the importance of improving waste collection 
quality. 
The citizens of Modena and Rimini were particularly involved in the campaign to improve the quality of 
plastic collection, one of the most complex collections due to the wide range of materials included in this 
type of waste. To eliminate any doubts, the campaign focused on clarifying the concept of what plastic is. 
The campaign was broadcast on the radio, in the local press, on digital channels and through awareness-
raising actions with information points at leading local markets to reach a wide number of citizens.  
The  quality  of  collected  paper  was  the  experimental  communication  project  implemented  in  the 
municipality of Fiorano Modenese. The campaign was organised following a survey involving the citizens of 
Modena which showed the difficulty in understanding how to dispose of dirty cardboard, especially dirty 
206 
 