executives with regard to the alleged (cid:862)technical problems(cid:863) concerning the incineration plant or rather the 
aspects of potential pollution and suspected administrative violations. Twenty-seven civil parties had 
brought action in the proceedings, including private citizens, environmentalist associations and public 
Bodies. Furthermore, summons for the civil liability of Hera Spa and Herambiente Spa had been served. On 
22 October 2012, Hera Spa and Herambiente Spa were excluded from the proceedings and consequently 
any liability. On 6 December 2012, the Judge acquitted all those charged with the offences respectively 
ascribed to them, on the grounds that there was no case to answer. In April 2013, the afore-mentioned 
acquittal sentence was challenged by the Public Prosecutor before the Bologna Appeals Court. In its ruling 
delivered on 3 May 2018, the Bologna Appeals Court confirmed the acquittal sentence of the Court of Forlì. 
With reference to the flood which, on 24 June 2013, following a violent storm, submerged the street Via 
Santa Cristina S.P 69 in Rimini and caused the flooding of the Rimini prison and neighbouring dwellings 
(including that of an inhabitant who died on the same day due to illness), an employee of Hera Spa and 2 
other parties were served a notice for a preliminary hearing in which they were accused of disaster and 
manslaughter. At the date of drafting of this report, the investigation phase is underway. 
Worthy of mention is the notification in July 2017 of the decree that ordered the committal to trial of two 
Herambiente managers, with which the Public Prosecutor of Rimini questioned the odorous and noisy 
emissions from the recovery plant in Rimini which allegedly caused nuisance to the owners of nearby lands. 
At the first hearing scheduled for 28 November 2017, a local committee was set up as plaintiff for damages 
and the defence of the Herambiente managers filed an application to settle some of the charges with 
payment of a fine. At the date of drafting of this report, the investigation phase is underway. 
By means of petition brought before the Regional Administrative Court of Emilia Romagna against ATO-BO, 
Atersir and vis-à-vis Hera Spa and the Ministry for the Environment, Land and the Sea, Federconsumatori 
Nazionale requested the cancellation, subject to suspension of the efficacy, of the resolution of the ATO-
Bologna No. 16 dated 22 December 2011 which concerned the (cid:862)Integrated water service: new regulatory 
period 2011 - 2015 for the operator Hera Spa and 2012 tariff structure(cid:863) and of any other preordained, 
associated, alleged and/or consequential act. 
The main reasons for censure concerned: 
•  the alleged violation of the repealing referendum effect concerning the matter of the adequacy of 
the remuneration of the invested capital. 
•  the application, by the challenged resolution, of the Regional Tariff Method which, according to the 
counterpart, would not be applicable given the alleged lack of legitimation of the Emilia-Romagna 
Regional Authority with regard to its approval. 
•  the arbitrary introduction, by the challenged resolution, of the item (cid:862)Financial charges(cid:863), which is 
not event contemplated by the Regional Tariff Method.  
Hera Spa appeared before the court disputing the aforementioned reasons for censure and, by means of 
Order filed on 8 June 2012 the Regional Administrative Court rejected the application for interim relief 
presented by the plaintiff. By Court Order, the Regional Administrative Court of the Emilia-Romagna Region 
declared the appeal expired. 
In ruling 1602/2016, Section II of Regional Administrative Court of Tuscany upheld the appeal on additional 
grounds in case 143/2016 brought by environmental associations (WWF and Italia Nostra) and the appeal 
number 180/2016 brought by the Campi Bisenzio municipality and accordingly, ordered the annulment of 
the measure adopted on 23 November 2015 no. 4688 by the officer for Environmental quality of the 
Metropolitan City of Florence, of the minutes of the related service conferences of and subsequent 
pleadings for repossession. The object of the measure annulled by the Regional Administrative Court is the 
granting of an integrated authorisation and IEA for the construction, management and operation of a 
waste incineration plant filed by Q.tHermo. On this matter it should be noted that, in accordance with the 
provisions of the planning documents on waste, Quadrifoglio (the company that currently manages the 
integrated service for waste collection in the municipalities of the Florentine plain) called a dual tender to 
210 
 