select a private minority shareholder with which it was to form a NewCo that would handle the design, 
construction and management of a waste-to-energy plant in Tuscany. The tender was awarded to the 
temporary consortium formed by the companies Hera S.p.A. and Herambiente S.p.A. which, in compliance 
with the commitments made for the tender, formed a company called SAT S.r.l. to underwrite a share of 
the capital of the NewCo with Quadrifoglio, i.e. the Q.tHermo company. The aforesaid ruling of the 
Regional Administrative Court of Tuscany was opposed before the Council of State before which a hearing 
was held on 19 December 2017. A decision on the case was not taken. The Council of State filed its decision 
confirming the objections of the first instance Judge, with specific reference to the fact that the location of 
the waste-to-energy plant at Case Passerini was closely linked to the environmental redevelopment project 
and especially to the renaturalising works comprising the so-called (cid:862)Boschi della Piana(cid:863) which, instead, had 
not  been  built  before  the  construction  of  the  waste-to-energy  plant.  Q.tHermo  started  revocation 
proceedings of the aforementioned ruling in order to obtain its overturning. The Council of State has not 
yet scheduled a hearing as of the reporting date.  
With an action brought before the Regional Administrative Court of Emilia-Romagna in 2017 by WWF, 
Panda Imola - Non-profit voluntary organisation and Legambiente Medicina against the Region of Emilia 
Romagna and against CON.AMI. and Herambiente, the claimants challenged the decision of the Regional 
Council of Emilia Romagna dated 21 December 2016, no. 2262 entitled (cid:862)provision for an Environmental 
Impact Assessment (EIA) regarding the project for the expansion of the Tre Monti landfill: volumetric 
recovery through  raising of  the 3rd  lot  in  the municipality of  Imola (BO)  -  Proposers CON.AMI and 
Herambiente(cid:863)  published  in  the  B.U.R.E.R.  on  9  January  2017  and  related  annexes.  By  way  of  the 
aforementioned resolution, the Region issued the EIA ruling regarding the raising of the (cid:862)Tre Monti(cid:863) landfill 
and the claimants challenged its legitimacy, raising as main claim the fact that the Region, since not taking 
into account the negative opinion expressed by the Ministry of Cultural Heritage, did not set up the referral 
procedure to the Council of Ministers. Although this negative opinion was not necessary for the raising 
work, given that this area does not need to comply with any landscape protection obligations, the Regional 
Administrative Court, with ruling filed on 10 January 2018, upheld the complaint lodged by the applicants. 
Herambiente challenged the ruling before the Council of State before which a public hearing was held on 
20 December 2018. At the date of drafting of this report, the company is waiting for the filing of the ruling. 
With distinct appeals in 2015 before the Regional Administrative Court of Emilia-Romagna against Atersir, 
and against Hera Spa as other party, the Sassuolo municipality, on the one hand, and the Maranello, 
Fiorano  and  Formigine  municipalities,  on  the  other  hand,  have  sought  cancellation  of  Area  Council 
Resolution 6/2015, issued on 10 June 2015, containing the (cid:862)Economic and Financial Plan for 2015(cid:863). The 
municipalities  that  are  applicants  include  the  Sassuolo  municipality,  which,  in  addition  to the  above 
resolution, appealed against the Local Council of Modena(cid:859)s decision 3/2015 of 13 April 2015 and every 
other prerequisite and consequential measure. The municipalities that filed the application complained, 
mainly, of the lack of discussion to agree on the Economic and Financial Plan, that the cost elements 
therein were expressed in an aggregated form instead showing the unit cost of services for each entry and 
the alleged unjustified increase of the costs of the service for municipal and similar-to-municipal waste. 
Hera Spa appeared before the court disputing what had been claimed in fact and law by the municipalities 
that filed the application. At the date of drafting of this report, the date of the trial hearing is yet to be 
scheduled. With further appeals notified in 2016, again before the Regional Administrative Court of Emilia-
Romagna  against  Atersir,  and  against  Hera  Spa  as  the  other  party  to  the  proceedings,  the  above 
municipalities sought the cancellation of Area Council Resolution 25/2016, published on 11 May 2016 on 
(cid:862)Approval of economic/financial plans for the municipal waste management service for the year 2016(cid:863). 
Hera Spa has appeared before the court and at the date of drafting of this report, the date of the trial 
hearing is yet to be scheduled. 
With further appeals notified in 2017 before the Regional Administrative Court of Emilia Romagna against 
Atersir, and against Hera S.p.A as the other party to the proceedings, the Municipalities of Sassuolo, 
Maranello, Fiorano, Formigine, Predappio, Tredozio, Rocca San Casciano, Bertinoro, Forlimpopoli, Galeata, 
Premilcuore, Meldola, Savignano sul Rubicone, Borghi, Sogliano al Rubicone, San Mauro Pascoli, Longiano, 
211 
 