Gambettola,  Roncofreddo,  Santa  Sofia,  Castelnuovo  Rangone,  Castelvetro  di  Modena,  Savignano  sul 
Panaro, Spilamberto, Vignola, Guiglia, Marano sul Panaro and Zocca challenged, within their area of 
responsibility, resolution no. 27 of 24 March 2017 and resolution no. 17 of 15 March 2017 adopted by the 
Authority Council of Atersir and through which the Economic and Financial Plans for the 2017 municipal 
waste management service covering the local areas related to the above municipalities were approved. A 
hearing is yet to be scheduled as of the reporting date. 
With further appeals notified in 2018 before the Regional Administrative Court of Emilia Romagna against 
Atersir, and against Hera S.p.A as the other party to the proceedings, the Municipalities of Sassuolo, 
Formigine,  Castelvetro  di  Modena, Savignano  sul Panaro,  Spilamberto,  Vignola, Zocca,  Castel Guelfo, 
Maranello and Fiorano Modenese challenged resolution no. 9 of 19 February 2018 of the Authority Council 
and resolution no. 1 of 12 February 2018 of the Local Council, respectively, through which the Economic 
and Financial Plans for the 2018 municipal waste management service covering the local areas related to 
the above municipalities were approved. With a similar extraordinary appeal to the President of the 
Republic, then brought before the Regional Administrative Court of Emilia Romagna, the Municipality of 
Imola challenged Atersir resolution no. 19 of 19 March 2018 of the Area Council containing the Economic 
and Financial Plan for the 2018 municipal waste management service relating to the Municipality of Imola, 
as well as, to the extent concerned, Atersir resolution no. 3 of 8 March 2018 of the Local Council of 
Bologna. At the date of drafting of this report, the date of the trial hearing is yet to be scheduled. 
 
Relationships with the Public Administration 
Integrity in relationships with the Public Administration 
Hera is committed to ensuring the highest levels of integrity and honesty in its relationships with the Public 
Administration. This is why the Group has adopted, and regularly updates, an organisation, management 
and control model designed to identify specific risks associated with the crimes identified in Legislative 
Decree 231/2001. This organisation model comprises protocols that strive to ensure transparency and a 
sense of ownership in internal and external relationships. For each (cid:862)high risk(cid:863) process, the protocols 
identify principles, roles, and responsibilities which should be followed in managing the activities and 
define the periodic information flows for control. Each protocol ensures the constant monitoring of risk 
activities for the Supervisory Body, including: relationship management with the Authorities, public loans, 
sponsorships, donations and gifts and procurement, protection of the environment and health and safety in 
the workplace. 
The  procedures  adopted  conform  to  the  principles  of  the  Code  of  Ethics  and  seek  to  guide  Group 
management based on the values and principles defined in the Charter of Values. 
Relations with Local Authorities 
The Central Department for Relations with Local Authorities constantly and effectively supervises relations 
with partner Municipalities and with Local Authorities, with a view to giving proper attention to the areas 
served by the Group. Despite having a good part of its activities clearly (cid:862)included(cid:863) in these areas, the Group 
is gradually growing in both industrial and organisational terms. All Local Authorities served, therefore, can 
always and easily reach a contact to receive a response, in due time, to questions and problems on the 
services provided by the Group, being certain they are talking with the right people and will obtain the 
required feedback within a reasonable time. 
Integration with Strategic Planning and Business Regulations also made it possible to enrich the information 
content made available to Area Managers, creating a constant, two-way flow of information between the 
Group and the area served. 
212 
 