extend  into  the  neighbouring  urban  areas.  Furthermore,  work  is  continuing  for  recovery  and 
communication of the equipment installed in the years in which the central communication and acquisition 
systems were not yet active. 
Procurement and installation activities are now fully proceduralised and industrialized. Now the focus of 
the technical structures is on communication reliability and on the analysis of the factors that determine 
the yield of remote reading over specific timeframes (3 days, 7 days, etc..) in order to optimize the 
commercial performance of the system. At the same time, specific measures are being taken to optimize 
operating costs, with particular regard to communication costs, and activities were finalized to improve the 
commercial performance of the remote reading system, with particular regard to communication and 
rental costs for the facilities that house the concentrators. 
 
Initiatives for improving invoicing quality 
When invoicing energy services, Hera Comm uses the data received from the distribution companies (and 
soon from the Integrated Information System of ARERA) on the levels of consumption measured and the 
self-readings taken by customers and validated by the distribution companies. 
For electricity, the almost total diffusion of electronic meters helps to provide accurate readings in line with 
the customer(cid:859)s real consumption levels. As for the measurement of gas consumption for most customers, 
the consumption estimates are still essential and it is in this context that Hera Comm is working to make 
these estimates match actual customer consumption as closely as possible. 
In 2018, specific areas were examined in detail in order to maximize the use of the actual readings, to act 
properly on customers with estimated bills, and to facilitate final customers in reading their meters and 
sending the consumption data. In particular, a repeated check was carried out on the readings expected by 
the distributors and on the readings actually received, taking specific action on some specific distributors to 
encourage prompt delivery of reading data. 
In addition, control processes were implemented to: 
•  minimize the use of estimates; 
•  increase the accuracy of estimates;  
•  create and use specific drawing curves; 
•  align the assumed annual consumption with the actual readings received in previous periods; 
•  redistribute invoicing periods for large customers so as to streamline the process from receipt of 
meter reading data to customer invoicing. 
 
Quality of drinking water 
In 2018, to ensure control of the quality of water supplied, the Group(cid:859)s laboratories in Emilia-Romagna, 
Triveneto and Marche performed 399,013 analyses on drinking water, including all the analyses performed 
for the aqueduct process as a whole. This amounts to an average of almost 1,100 analyses per day. Of 
these, 63% were carried out on samples collected in the  distribution networks. Substantial stability 
continues in the relationship between the analyses carried out on the distribution network and those 
carried out on the plants, aimed at effectively preventing non-conformities. 
Quality checks on the water used to produce water for drinking and for human consumption are governed 
by Italian Legislative Decrees 152/2006 and 31/2001, respectively. 
The checks are carried out by the water service operator and the Local Health Authorities at the source 
sampling points, at the water treatment and accumulation plants, and along the intake and distribution 
networks. 
234 
 