Hera has developed a Group Control Plan which describes the sampling points and the analysis methods 
used (parameters and frequencies of the analyses). The Control Plan is developed on the basis of guidelines 
that focus on the water(cid:859)s chemical, physical and bacteriological characteristics, so as to fully comply with 
legal requirements and ensure a top-quality product. In 2018, AcegasApsAmga revised its water quality 
monitoring programming to improve monitoring of the most critical parameters. 
Water quality also means controlling the effectiveness of the treatment processes. For example, the water 
is checked for chlorites and trihalomethanes, which come from, respectively, the use of chlorine dioxide 
and sodium hypochlorite as disinfectants. The concentration of chlorites and trihalomethanes in the 
distribution network is kept under constant control in line with the regulatory limits. 
Since 2008, the average data recorded for the pH, total hardness, dry solids at 180 °C, chloride, fluoride, 
sodium, nitrate, nitrite and ammonium has been published on the Group(cid:859)s website, listed by individual 
municipality, and updated every six months. Since 2012, this set of parameters has been extended to 
include  four  others:  calcium,  magnesium,  sulphates,  and  total  alkalinity.  These  13  parameters  are 
considered to be representative of the quality of the drinking water distributed and can be used to draw 
comparisons with the quality of bottled water on the market. 
Starting from the second half of 2014, the set of parameters was further expanded with 6 additional 
parameters as required by ARERA: conductivity, potassium, arsenic, bicarbonate, residual chlorine and 
manganese. As such, 19 parameters are subject to publication, one more than the number determined by 
the Regulator. 
Since 15 September 2012, the tap water label has been present in Hera(cid:859)s bills as well as on its website. 
Customers can find the data on the quality of the water distributed by Hera in their municipality (updated 
every 6 months), directly on their bill. The communication concerns 165 municipalities in Emilia-Romagna 
where Hera manages the water distribution service and includes the values of 19 water quality parameters, 
compared with the regulatory limits (alkalinity from bicarbonates, total alkalinity, ammonium, arsenic, 
calcium, free chlorine, chloride, conductivity, pH, hardness, fluoride, magnesium, manganese, nitrate, 
nitrite, potassium, dry residue at 180 °C, sodium, and sulphate). Alongside the data, a message reminds 
customers that tap water is good, safe and better for the environment, and allows them to save Euro 270 
per year. The AcegasApsAmga website includes water quality data for the municipalities served in the 
Padua and Trieste areas, which are updated constantly. 
Since January 2009, all drinking water production plants in Romagna have been operated by Romagna 
Acque - Società delle Fonti, the company set up for this purpose by the local regional administrations of 
Romagna. As a result, the water distributed in the Forlì-Cesena, Ravenna and Rimini areas is in large part 
purchased wholesale from that company, and Hera(cid:859)s involvement in quality is limited to operating the 
networks and the supplementary disinfection stations along the distribution networks. 
The assessments of the quality of distributed drinking water, as compared to the quality of mineral water, 
are carried out based on the analytic parameters which are commonly surveyed at the representative 
sampling points of the aqueduct networks: pH, total hardness, dry residue at 180 °C, sodium, fluorides, 
nitrates,  nitrite,  chlorides,  calcium,  bicarbonate  alkalinity,  manganese,  potassium,  sulphate.  The 
parameters chosen to measure the quality of distributed water refer primarily to the importance of 
distributing drinking water that contains a suitable amount of mineral salts. 
Once again in 2018 the average values for Hera(cid:859)s water are comparable with those of commercial mineral 
waters and that no exemptions were granted from compliance with the limits set by Italian Legislative 
Decree 31/2001. The only average result found by Hera, higher than that found on the labels of 17 mineral 
waters on the market, is nitrates in the territories of Modena, Padua and Rimini; the average value found in 
2018 in the water distributed by Hera is in these cases below the regulatory limit of 68-70%. 
235 
 