states that: (cid:862)On the basis of our current knowledge and the conclusions of the international institutions of 
reference, the water situation must not be regarded as an imminent risk for public health either in terms of 
eventual fibres ingested or as regards concentrations potentially transferred from the water to the air(cid:863). 
In the same communication, the Italian Higher Institute of Health indicates, as the only reference limit, (not 
a  parameter  value)  the  one  defined  by  the  US  EPA (Environmental  Protection  Agency)  as  7  million 
fibres/litre for fibres longer than 10 µm. 
In terms of monitoring, Hera carries out regular checks to determine if asbestos fibre is present in the 
water it distributes and the level of maintenance of the pipes. Every year since 2003, Hera has prepared 
and applied a specific Asbestos Control Plan which outlines the details of the sampling points that are most 
representative for the presence of asbestos cement, the frequencies and the analytical parameters to 
analyse. Over 257 inspections were carried out during 2018 and they confirm that most of the samples 
(over 95%) contain no asbestos fibres. In no case has the EPA limit of 7 million F/L been exceeded and even 
the highest value found in 2018 was 1,000 times lower than this limit. The water distributed by Hera has 
aggressiveness levels generally above 12 (non-aggressive with respect to the cement base). 
For further details on the quality of tap water distributed by Hera, see the appointment with (cid:862)In Buone 
Acque(cid:863), the report entirely dedicated to the quality of tap water that Hera has been publishing annually 
since 2009 with the collaboration of local health authorities and Romagna Acque. 
The new technical quality of the water service 
ARERA introduced the Integrated Water Service Technical Quality Regulation (RQTI) with resolution 917/17. 
The resolution requires monitoring: 
•  3 specific indicators concerning interruptions of aqueduct services; exceeding the corresponding 
standard values will result in automatic compensation being paid to users; 
•  6  macro-indicators  to  which  a  bonus/penalty  system  is  associated,  of  which  3  concern  the 
aqueduct service, 1 the sewage service and 2 the purification service; for these indicators the initial 
class  positions  have  been  defined  with  reference  to  the  2016  data  and,  accordingly,  the 
maintenance or improvement objectives to be achieved in the 2018-2019 two-year period. 
The bonus/penalty system will be operational from 2020 and will be defined in detail in the next regulatory 
measures. For access to this system, Resolution 917 provides for the possession of prerequisites relating to: 
a drinking water quality control system, the absence of urban areas included in European infringement 
procedures, minimum quality levels of measurement data (process and user data). 
As  regards  the  achievement  of  the  maintenance/improvement  objectives,  several  actions  have  been 
defined, including: 
•  systematization of the methods for recording interruptions to aqueduct services and sewage 
flooding incidents; 
•  extraordinary interventions for the replacement of user meters; 
•  increase of the reclamation activities of the aqueduct networks; 
•  increase of the renewal activities of the aqueduct connections; 
•  detailed analysis of non-conformities and revision of the Analytical Control Plan (partial measures 
2018 and further measures planned for 2019). 
Application of the new Water Safety Plans  
In 2018, the Water Safety Plans for four water supply zones for two aqueducts in the province of Bologna 
were completed: San Giovanni in Persiceto, industrial aqueduct of Imola, Imola e Dozza. In 2019, the 
approval process for these Security Plans is expected to start, and includes: 
•  transmission by computer (through access to the cloud portal) to the Italian Higher Institute of 
Health; 
237 
 