•  investigation  by  the  Italian  Higher  Institute  of  Health  with  possible  requests  for  changes  or 
additions; 
•  conclusion of the investigation with a positive outcome; 
•  final approval by the Ministry of Health.  
Bearing in mind the date by which the Security Plans must be completed, presumably by 2025, and the 
large number of supply areas served by Hera (over 400), we must try to work to set up Security Plans by 
structure types assessing, at the same time, how to automate, as much as possible, the completion of check 
lists and risk matrices. In terms of priorities, we envisage gradually implementing the Plans for the most 
densely populated supply areas. 
In 2018, for AcegasApsAmga, 224 check lists were collected on the entire aqueduct network of Trieste and 
Padua in order to assess the source of the risks that a dangerous event can generate and the related 
damage. The main hazard classes identified were: microbiological hazards, chemical hazards, physical 
hazards, radiological hazards and acceptability hazards. 
To process the risk model, AcegasApsAmga prepared a business intelligence model that will support it in 
the processing the risk matrices. For the 2019-2020 two-year period AcegasApsAmga expects to: 
•  identify the hazards and dangerous events; 
•  implement the business intelligence model; 
•  risk assessment; 
•  identification of control and monitoring measures; 
•  risk reassessment and identification of the priorities of the Water Safety Plan.  
Safety and continuity of the service 
Safety and continuity of the electricity service 
In 2018, the distribution grids operated by Inrete distributed approximately 2,246 GWh of electricity to 
around 259,000 users in 24 municipalities of the provinces of Bologna, Modena and Ravenna in Emilia-
Romagna. In addition, the over 163,300 users served by AcegasApsAmga, to whom about 833 GWh of 
electricity was distributed in the municipalities of Gorizia and Trieste. 
The electricity grids operated by Inrete in Emilia-Romagna are 10,370 kilometres long, 73.2% of them carry 
low voltage, 26.5% medium voltage, and 0.3% high voltage. 41.6% of the lines are underground, and the 
rest are overhead lines. In the Triveneto region AcegasApsAmga operated 2,280 kilometres of network, 
65.2% of them carry low voltage, 34.6% medium voltage, and 0.2% high voltage. 69% of the lines are 
underground. 
The continuity of electricity distribution service is regulated by ARERA provisions on the service quality of 
distribution, measurement and sales of electricity for the 2016-2023 regulatory period, approved by 
resolution 646/2015/R/eel. 
That resolution also identifies the indicators to use to measure power cuts, the monitoring systems and the 
reference standards. 
The indicators related to power cuts originating in the medium and low voltage grids express: 
•  the total annual duration of long power cuts without advance notice for low voltage customers; 
•  the total annual number of long and short power cuts without advance notice for low voltage 
customers. 
For the 2016-2023 regulatory period, Inrete and AcegasApsAmga have approved the reduction of power 
cuts  originating  from  the  medium  and  low  voltage  grids  attributable  to  external  causes.  The  above 
indicators, therefore, are calculated inclusive of external causes. Target levels and trend levels for these 
238 
 