In 2018, activities to improve the communication style towards end customers continued, thanks to the 
implementation of the new language project for both handling written requests and customer contact (call 
centre and branch office). Moreover, for almost all of 2018 ARERA promoted a survey on energy-related 
complaints to verify the quality and validity of the responses provided to customers. 
For AcegasApsAmga, the average response time to grievances was 18 days (27 in 2016), substantially in 
line with last year and 99.8% of complaints were answered within the standard time (was 99.9% in 2017). In 
Marche Multiservizi, the average response time to complaints was 9 calendar days (8 in 2017) and the 
percentage of complaints answered within the standard was 99.4%. 
Dispute Resolution 
Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) is increasingly used to solve problems without resorting to ordinary 
courts. This method is not costly for clients, who can participate in the resolution of disputes either in 
person or by delegating a representative. Most of the meetings take place by computer on IT platforms, 
thus avoiding the need to travel. The high percentage of positive outcomes proves the success of this 
method, which is becoming increasingly popular every year. 
Since January 2017, the sector(cid:859)s regulations make it compulsory for the gas and electricity sectors to 
attempt to resolve disputes. The attempt is a prerequisite for the admissibility of any subsequent legal 
action. The arbitration bodies must have the requisites set out in the Code of Commerce and be registered 
in the Register kept by ARERA. Since July 2018, arbitration has been extended to the integrated water 
service, even if in a non-compulsory form (until June 2019); in July 2018 the Hera Group joined the 
experimental phase, during which there is no constraint on the mandatory nature of the attempt, which 
will instead start in July 2019. A sharp increase in requests for arbitration for water services is expected in 
2019. 
In 2018, we received a total of 227 arbitration requests, 90 of which were for the gas service, 91 for 
electricity, 21 for both sectors and 25 for the water service. Of the 210 arbitration requests concluded 
during the year, 170 (81% of the total) concluded with a settlement, 34 (16%) without a settlement, 4 were 
terminated due to inadmissibility, 1 for a waiver of the request and 1 for non-participation. 
Litigation with customers 
At the close of 2018, there were 483 disputes pending with customers (204 of which initiated during the 
year) mainly on application of the tariffs applied to the services provided and the recovery of payments. Of 
these 204 disputes, 154 concern the gas, electricity and district heating service, 32 the water service and 17 
the waste management service. The remainder of the dispute is pending against a customer in relation to 
the supply of energy associated with the management and modernization of a co-generation plant. The 
disputes with customers mainly concern the energy sector, and in particular objections to the protective 
system to which  customers  are  assigned  by  the  competent  distributor,  to invoicing,  and  complaints 
requesting reactivation of electricity or gas supplies that had been disconnected due to the customer 
paying late. In the water sector, instead, disputes mainly regards customers objecting to injunctions. 
During 2018, 210 disputes were settled. 
The security of information and protection of personal data 
The synergy in managing Personal Data and Logical Security was strengthened, with a view to sharing 
analyses on information security and personal data protection, conducted with a unified methodological 
approach within the Group. 
Requests for consultancy and specific legal support were managed by processing specific in-depth analyses 
of regulations and of the documentation required to ensure the regulatory compliance of Group processes 
in terms of privacy, also for service contracts. 
247 
 