Area 
What we will do 
* 
• Continue to promote the third edition of HeraSolidale in 2019 and support the pursuit of the 
objectives of the 5 non-profit organisations partners through donations from employees and  ER  T  M 
customers.  
• Continue to promote Hextra, the Hera Group welfare system, by enhancing related 
opportunities in terms of knowledge, dissemination and usability of the services offered, with 
ER  T  M 
a view to increased support to employees when choosing how to use allocated shares (e.g. 
flexible share, instruction shares, performance bonus share, etc.). 
• 24.4 training hours per capita in 2019 for HerAcademy.  ER  T  M 
• -3% reduction in the accident frequency index in 2019 (18.2) compared to the average for 
2014-2018. Increase the culture of health and safety for workers at all levels of the company  ER  T  M 
through initiatives such as (cid:862)Guido come vivo(cid:863) and (cid:862)Hera cardioprotetta(cid:863). 
• Involve all workers in the fourth updating of the Group(cid:859)s Code of Ethics.  ER  T   
* Geographic scope of the improvement objectives ER: Emilia-Romagna T: Triveneto M: Marche. 
 
Planning of roles and skills, selection and onboarding 
Strategic planning of sought-after and future skills and roles 
The five strategic levers of the Business Plan steer the action of the Central Personnel and Organisation 
Department towards building a corporate environment supporting business strategy. 
The rapid changes in the competitive context, in technology and in the regulatory framework require that 
organisations adapt and respond in an ever faster way. The diffusion of agility is a goal shared by several 
areas of intervention and also extends to relations with the ecosystem. 
The current and constantly evolving market scenario, therefore, also leads the Hera Group to adopt 
systemic intervention models that are able to support the implementation of the strategies of individual 
businesses and to identify the offer and demand for both current and future roles and abilities.  
In this context, as part of the 2018 business planning cycle, a new approach to the workforce planning 
process was launched. Drawing on greater integration between the business strategy and the strategy for 
roles  and skills,  the  approach  examines  HR  numbers  and  costs,  and  steers  the  development of  the 
personnel management strategy in the long term, supporting Group strategy implementation. This is 
achieved by analysing workforce dynamics both from an internal and external viewpoint. The goal of 
strategic workforce planning is to identify and bridge the gap between the current and future situation by 
finding the best solutions in terms of quality, quantity, timing and location of the workforce, through an 
integrated action plan.  
Within the context of this approach, reflection and analysis involve 5 main aspects: 
•  Dimension - is workload rising or falling? Will there be roles that will no longer be necessary or will 
be able to be replaced by automation? Will there be emerging roles that will be included in the 
organisation? 
•  Cost – will cost change in line with the increase in results? 
•  Geographical  location  –  are  the  various  professional  families  located  where  they  are  really 
needed? How does the external context influence the current geographical location of resources? 
•  Skills: Do we have the right skills to implement key processes in the future? Are there any obsolete 
skills? Do we need to develop new skills? 
251 
 