functional teams focused on realizing innovative and effective solutions in a short time. Participation in the 
team represents a development opportunity for people and allows the spread of technological knowledge 
and raising awareness of innovation. Overall, 4 projects have been launched with the participation of 18 
employees in the following areas: 
•  "Second level dashboard": Development of the "second level" of the company dashboard system 
for the 6 "areas" already included in the first level dashboard (Herambiente, AcegasApsAmga, 
Heracomm, Water, Environmental Services, Inrete); 
•  Hera LE(a)D: Planning and implementation of the transition to LED lighting systems in two company 
sites and development of a model for the extension to the other sites; 
•  Idea Management: Review of the "Hera model" for the management of the Idea Management 
process, aimed at promoting greater employee involvement in the generation and implementation 
of innovative ideas; 
•  Virtual Training: Design and implementation of a training module to be delivered through the use 
of augmented reality, on issues related to operations. 
Remuneration and incentives 
The Hera Group defines and applies a remuneration policy aimed at attracting, motivating and retaining 
resources having the professional qualities requested to achieve the Group(cid:859)s objectives. 
The policy is defined so as to align the interest of various stakeholders and to achieve the priority objective 
of  creating  value  in  the  medium-long  period  and  increasing  the  shared  value  generated,  through 
consolidation of the connection between remuneration and performance, both individual and Group-
related. 
All Group employees are hired through national collective labour agreements. 
With reference to the labour agreements that govern the employment relationships of all Group workers, 
the table illustrates the gaps between gross monthly remunerations (net of accrued 13th and 14th monthly 
pay and of performance bonus) and those specified by the labour agreement. Comparison between the 
minimum pay/salary conditions of all the national collective labour agreements applied in the company and 
the minimum ones applied in the company was conducted by considering the minimum classification 
conditions for the three employment classes. 
Ratio between minimum monthly pay and salary conditions according to labour agreements and Hera 
monthly pay and salary levels (2018) 
Euro  Minimum  Minimum  Average 
monthly  monthly  monthly 
salary  Hera  Hera 
according to  salary   salary  
labour agr.  
Middle managers  3,028  3,130  4,787 
White-collar workers  1,488  1,611  2,840 
Blue-collar workers  1,229  1,284  2,357 
The data apply to the following companies: Hera Spa, Acantho, Fea, Hera Comm, Hera Luce, Hera Trading, 
Herambiente, Herambiente Servizi industriali, HERAtech, Inrete Distribuzione Energia, Uniflotte, AcegasApsAmga, 
AcegasApsAmga Servizi Energetici, Hestambiente, Marche Multiservizi and Waste Recycling where 93% of Group 
employees work. 
The average salary applied is higher than the minimum labour agreement conditions for all three classes: 
+58% for middle managers, +91% for white-collar workers and +92% for blue-collar workers. Even the 
minimum salary applied is 3% higher than that envisaged by the labour agreement for middle managers, 
8% higher for white-collar workers and 4% for blue-collar workers. 
262 
 