These differences are directly related to the average age level of the corporate population and to seniority, 
and are connected to the policies aimed at favouring internal professional growth. 
Ratio between senior management monthly salaries according to labour agreements and Hera monthly 
salaries (Utilitalia contract) 
Euro  2018 
Monthly minimum according to labour agr.  5,077 
Monthly minimum Hera Group  5,385 
Average monthly Hera Group salary  9,826 
Average monthly market salary for managers  10,524 
 
The table illustrates the gaps between average gross monthly salary levels in Hera (net of the accrued 13th 
monthly pay and variable remuneration) and those envisaged by the national collective labour agreement. 
The contract of reference for this qualification is the Utilitalia contract. The minimum salary applied by Hera 
is 6% higher than the Utilitalia agreement, while the average salary of Hera managers is 93% higher than 
the minimum salary stipulated in the contract, yet 7% lower than the average market salaries for managers, 
as reported in the Hay Compensation Report – Total Cash Italia 2017. 
For this position also, the differences between the salaries applied and labour agreement references are 
the result of the application of previous economic schemes, also with regard to age (on average 52.2 years) 
and of years of stay in the Group (on average 17.9 years) for the category of managers. 
Average salaries by gender (2018) 
Euro  Men  Women 
Managers  10,174  8,534 
Middle managers  4,833  4,695 
White-collar workers  2,920  2,715 
Blue-collar workers  2,358  2,305 
The data apply to the following companies: Hera Spa, Acantho, Fea, Hera Comm, Hera Luce, Hera Trading, 
Herambiente, Herambiente Servizi industriali, HERAtech, Inrete Distribuzione Energia, Uniflotte, AcegasApsAmga, 
AcegasApsAmga Servizi Energetici, Hestambiente, Marche Multiservizi and Waste Recycling where 90% of Group 
employees work. 
The salary gap between men and women within the management class is significant (Euro 1,640): this 
figure is influenced by the number of female directors (5 out of 37). Much lower salary gap for middle-
managers, white-collar workers and blue-collar workers. The salary gap between men and women is due to 
the fact that 66% of management employees are male. Regarding managers, white-collar workers and blue-
collar workers, the ratio of the remuneration of women to that of men is equal to 97%, 93% and 98%, and 
is higher than the national average of the energy, water and waste management sectors - 92% in 2014 
(Source: Eurostat 2014, most recent figure available). The gap is obviously influenced by the level of 
seniority as well as - as regards the role of the blue-collar and white-collar workers - by the level of 
classification. 
The  Group(cid:859)s  remuneration  policy  system  is  based  on  the  ability  to  recognise  the  most  appropriate 
remuneration  package  depending  on  the  individual  performance  achieved,  skills  put  into  practice, 
organisational position held and specific comparison on the market. Any remuneration gap between 
individuals can be attributed exclusively to these factors and is in no way influenced, except as provided for 
by the relevant NCLA, by other elements (age, gender, culture...). 
 
Ratio between average salary by gender in main Italian utility companies 
263 
 