field of corporate welfare and well-being. Welfare has thus become a real lever for the organisation, acting 
on the work-life balance of the people who work in the Group. 
The HEXTRA experience continued in 2018, Hera Group(cid:859)s welfare system offering a wide range of initiatives 
and services tailored to meet workers(cid:859) needs and to increase individual and family well-being in economic 
and social terms. A flexible welfare share of Euro 385 was assigned to each employee, to be used for the 
HEXTRA offer.  
This positive experience counted on 8,578 members in 2018, equal to 98.5% of the potential population, 
with  over Euro 4.2 million used by employees. This result was achieved thanks to clear information and 
presentation of the services, to the usefulness attributed to each of them and to the positive impact on 
work-life balance. In fact, following the signature of the renewal of the Group(cid:859)s collective agreement, all 
employees were offered the option to convert part of their 2017 performance bonus paid in 2018 into a 
further welfare quota. This option is convenient also from a tax viewpoint: the entire performance bonus 
portion converted into welfare (maximum 50%) is not subject to any tax burden, resulting in significant 
advantages in terms of increased purchasing power for each employee. 
Increased  purchasing  power,  easy  to  use  and  quick  service:  a  winning  combination  for  a  fully 
comprehensive welfare experience. This can all be achieved digitally, with low environmental impact, both 
from the office or comfortably from home. 
The main HEXTRA initiatives in 2018 included: the second edition of university scholarships offering 40 
scholarships worth Euro 750 each; the second edition of the language study courses A summer in the 
world with interculturalism, which in addition to 10 scholarships worth Euro 2,000 each for summer 
programmes, also included 2 scholarships worth Euro 7,500 each for an entire school year abroad. The 
management of the V edition of the summer camps and, in line with the previous year, the allocation of an 
instruction quota for employees who have school-age children for a total investment of over Euro 536,000. 
In detail, among all the projects set up to support the education of employee(cid:859)s children, 3,550 applications 
were received. Of these, 213 shares were used by employees for crèche services. Ten applications for 
attending crèches with which the Group has agreements (in Bologna, Cesena and Imola) must be added, for 
a total of 223 children.  
Awareness-raising events promoting healthy diets continued: My Junior Chef, which involved parents and 
children in amusing labs to learn through play the principles of the food pyramid and prepare a traditional 
Italian dish together, and the creation of the HEXTRA health education section. An (cid:862)information desk(cid:863) 
providing good advice on nutrition and good eating habits for healthy lifestyles. Lastly, healthy living is 
possible by making small everyday changes that can have a big impact down the line.    
Also in the area of personal services, a flu vaccination campaign was set up for Group employees, which is 
part of the 2017-19 National Vaccine Prevention Plan of the Ministry of Health. All employees were able to 
book their flu vaccine free of charge and, in collaboration with the company doctors, it was also possible to 
offer them a flu jab service. Furthermore, as part of the activities managed by mobility management, 
reimbursement of the expenses incurred by all employees or their family members who travel using the 
regional or interregional public transport service, was included in HEXTRA. 
Lastly, once again in 2018, with (cid:858)In Hera energy is Worth More(cid:859) users can have access to a promotion for 
the supply of free market gas and electricity and can benefit directly from the value that all employees, day 
after day with their jobs, help create with a view to reaching an increasingly shared and participated 
welfare. A call to action for all employees which also has repercussions on the creation of the Welfare 
Voucher service. This new product complies with tax legislation and provides all employees with a local 
map, allowing them to identify with which partner they can carry out their welfare activity among those 
available: sports, wellness, culture and leisure, and medical check-ups. With just a few clicks and no waiting 
time, employees can request vouchers and use them at the centre they have chosen. This service was 
highly appreciated and was undoubtedly one of the HEXTRA services most used by employees. 
266 
 