purification index is directly influenced by the volumes treated, against energy consumption that by nature 
of the plants remain substantially stable. The values for 2017 were higher than the historical data due to 
lower volumes treated as a result of the drought. As far as drinking water is concerned, also in this case 
consumption in 2017 had increased due to the particularly dry summer, which had made it necessary to 
use more energy-intensive sources of supply (groundwater). 
District heating shows a general worsening of the indicator compared to the previous year, mainly linked to 
the greater use of thermal power plants to the detriment of cogeneration with electricity. 
The vehicle index improved, thanks to the gradual renewal of the fleet. In particular, the index of vehicles 
used for waste management, prevalent from the point of view of consumption, increased in the 2017-2018 
period from 529.5 to 519.2 toe/million km, down 2%, particularly significant on this type of vehicle. 
The public lighting index has further improved, as a result of the energy efficiency measures described in 
the respective paragraph in this Chapter. 
 
Energy efficiency in the Hera Group 
The Group(cid:859)s focus on energy efficiency is reflected by the ISO 50001 certification for energy management 
systems for eight companies of the Group: AcegasApsAmga, AcegasApsAmga Servizi Energetici, Aresgas, 
Hera Spa, Hera Luce, Hera Servizi Energia, Inrete Distribuzione Energia and Marche Multiservizi. In addition, 
Herambiente has achieved ISO 50001 certification for some of its plants. 
The energy improvement plans of Hera Spa, AcegasApsAmga and Marche Multiservizi drawn up since 2014 
as part of their energy management systems, envisaged achieving the aim to reduce energy consumption 
by 3% (compared to 2013 consumption) within 2017. Based on the positive results obtained, at the end of 
2017 this target was increased to 5% by 2020. A further target of 6% is planned to be reached by 2022. 
The objective is calculated as the average of the objectives that Hera Spa, InRete, AcegasApsAmga and 
Marche Multiservizi have defined as part of their certification schemes. In particular, the objectives of Hera 
Spa,  Inrete  and  Marche  Multiservizi  are  calculated  using  their  2013  consumption  as  baseline  while 
AcegasApsAmga considers the 2014 consumption. 
Significant energy saving has been achieved to date in the water cycle, both as regards purification and 
drinking water treatment. Important efficiency improvement has also been achieved for district heating, 
where  the  measures  mainly  affect  the  optimisation  of  sources  and  effective  utilisation  of  the  best-
performing systems. 
28 
 