It should be noted that dialogue is underway in the Hera Group among the Group(cid:859)s Prevention and 
Protection Services; the aim is to stabilise accident analysis scopes, to make accident analysis activities 
uniform, to share significant event analyses and to identify common prevention and protection strategies 
based on the Risk Assessment and accident analysis results. 
 
Industrial relations 
A Memorandum of Understanding was signed on 23 April 2018 between Company Management and the 
National, Regional and Local Trade Unions and the Single Trade Union Representation on work/life balance 
for all the personnel of the Hera Group operating in Emilia Romagna, Friuli Venezia Giulia, Marches and 
Veneto. This agreement was signed pursuant to the Interministerial Decree of 12 September 2017 and 
allows  additional  tools  to  be  implemented  to  promote  work-life  balance  methods  combining  Group 
employees(cid:859) business needs with their personal and family needs. 
The most significant new features included in the Agreement were:  
•  the free transfer of holidays/leave/reduced working hours ((cid:862)solidarity hours(cid:863)) by every worker to 
fellow employees hired by the same employer to allow them to assist their underage children 
and/or  spouse  who,  due  to  disability  and/or  serious  illness  (which  must  be  certified  and 
documented), require constant care; 
•  the experimentation of the smart - remote working mode was extended to cover all of 2018 (for 
the same organisational structures already involved) and will be extended to other organisational 
structures by way of a subsequent agreement; 
•  the services and agreements set up in Hera Group(cid:859)s Welfare Plan to promote work/life balance 
were indicated. 
Group agreements were also entered into on 23 April 2018 between Company Management and the 
National, Regional and Local Trade Unions and the Single Trade Union Representation regarding the 
reporting of the performance bonus profitability and productivity indicators for 2017 and the definition of 
the  profitability  and  productivity  indicators  for  2018,  in  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  the 
Supplementary Labour Agreement of 25 March 2017. 
Again at Group level, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed in June with National Trade Unions 
regarding the 2018 Financed Training Plan and the 2018 Training Plan was presented to them, as provided 
for by the Industrial Relations Protocol. 
A Memorandum of Understanding was signed between Company Management and National Trade Unions 
on 20 July 2018 regarding the introduction of the WFM system in a number of Group companies (Hera 
S.p.A., Inrete Distribuzione Energia, HERAtech, Marche Multiservizi, AcegasApsAmga and Hera Luce). This 
system aims to improve the company(cid:859)s operating processes in terms of effectiveness and efficiency. It 
involves all running, maintenance, emergency response and user management activities, and is used by 
means of the devices installed on the vehicles and those supplied to the operating and technical personnel 
such as palmtops, tablets and smartphones. The system implements new mobile technologies on the above 
devices  allowing  real-time  assignment  and  electronic  reporting  of  on-field  activities.  These  devices 
incorporate GPS navigation and satellite tracking systems that improve intervention coordination and 
effectiveness. 
A Memorandum of Understanding was signed on 26 July 2018, after lengthy discussions with trade unions, 
between  Company  Management  and  National,  Regional  and  Local  Trade  Unions  and  the  Regional 
Coordination of the Single Trade Union Representation of Emilia Romagna, Friuli and Veneto, regarding the 
implementation of the (cid:862)leaving home for the worksite(cid:863) mode of operation for all Group personnel tasked 
with planned technical/operational and supporting activities in the waste management services, networks 
and plants areas. The company had already started using this mode of operation in April 2017. After many 
274 
 