months, with the subsequent and above-mentioned trade union agreement, an implementing regulation 
was defined and shared with the trade unions.  
On 21 November 2018, an agreement for the extension of the integrated Hera Group Welfare system was 
signed  together  with  National,  Regional  and  Local  Trade  Unions  and  with  the  Single  Trade  Union 
Representation. Specifically, the Parties confirmed a (cid:862)Flexible Welfare Package(cid:863) for the two-year period 
2019 - 2020 for an overall amount of Euro 385/year. The aim was to align the Welfare Plan to the renewal 
of the Group(cid:859)s Supplementary Labour Agreement. 
Again in November, a Meeting Report was signed between Company Management and National, Regional 
and Local Trade Unions and the Single Trade Union Representation on Smart-Remote Working. Having 
acknowledged the overall positive response of this operating mode, both by the company and by workers, 
in  terms  of  organisational  efficiency,  productivity,  and  work-life  balance,  the  Parties  agreed  on  its 
implementation  to  all  professional  families  within  the  Group.  Specifically,  personnel  meeting  the 
requirements prescribed for remote working were involved, on a voluntary basis. 
In the Emilia Romagna Area, the Regional Fp Cgil, Fit Cisl, Uiltrasporti Uil and Fiadel Trade Unions and the 
Single  Trade  Union  Representation  of  Hera  S.p.A.  National  Collective  Labour  Agreement  for  Waste 
Management Services entered into a Memorandum of Understanding, on 9 February 2018, to supersede 
the on-call system within Hera S.p.A. - Waste Management Department. 
On the same date (9 February 2018), a Memorandum of Understanding was entered into between the 
Regional Fp Cgil, Fit Cisl, Uiltrasporti Uil and Fiadel Trade Unions and the Single Trade Union Representation 
of Uniflotte S.r.l. National Collective Labour Agreement for Waste Management Services, to introduce the 
new on-call system within Uniflotte S.r.l - Vehicles and Bins Management Emilia and Romagna in the areas 
of Bologna, Ferrara, Forlì-Cesena, Modena, Ravenna and Rimini. This new model allowed emergency calls 
made outside working hours to be handled more effectively.  
On 19 March 2018, a Meeting Report was signed with the Single Trade Union Representation - National 
Collective Labour Agreement for the Electrical Sector of the Imola Area, which defines a  new work 
schedule, meeting the company(cid:859)s needs, for the staff of the Cogeneration Plant working on a H24 shift.  
On 26 March 2018, a Meeting Report was signed with the Local Trade Unions of Modena - National 
Collective Labour Agreement for Waste Management Services, which defines a  new afternoon work 
schedule, meeting the company(cid:859)s needs, for staff using the sweepers in the Modena area. 
On 16 April 2018, a Meeting Report was signed with the Local Trade Unions of Modena - National Collective 
Labour  Agreement  for  Waste  Management  Services  regarding  application  of  the  multi-period  work 
schedule within Hera S.p.A - Waste Management Services Department - Modena area- Mountain Area. 
Specifically, without prejudice to the period-based division defined with a previous agreement, a change 
was introduced to the weekly work schedule of drivers, attendants and technicians in order to improve 
organisational management. 
On 1 June 2018, the Regional Trade Unions - Waste Management Division and the Single Trade Union 
Representation of Hera S.p.A. - National Collective Labour Agreement for Waste Management Services 
entered into a Memorandum of Understanding for the installation of a GPS tracking system (called (cid:862)Hergo 
Ambiente(cid:863)) applied to the areas of Ravenna and Cesena of the Hera S.p.A. - Waste Management Services 
Department.  This  agreement  was  necessary  to  respond  to  the  requests  of  the  ATERSIR  Technical 
Regulations regarding the assignment for the management of municipal and similar-to-municipal waste in 
Ravenna and Cesena. Specifically, the main new aspect requested by ATERSIR, and not set out in the 
previous agreements entered into with the trade unions, regarded the possibility to continuously view the 
position of the vehicle whenever requested by the operator.  
On 11 June 2018, the Local Trade Unions of Bologna  - Energy Division and the Single Trade Union 
Representation - National Collective Labour Agreement for Water and Gas of the Bologna area entered into 
a Memorandum of Understanding on the access control system to be installed at the unsupervised 
275 
 