On 17 October 2018, the Regional Fp Cgil, Fit Cisl, Uiltrasporti Uil and Fiadel Trade Unions and the Single 
Trade  Union  Representation  of  Uniflotte  S.r.l  -  National  Collective  Labour  Agreement  for  Waste 
Management Services entered into a Memorandum of Understanding regarding the variation to working 
hours for the personnel of Uniflotte S.r.l - Vehicles and Bins Management Emilia, assigned to the Bologna, 
Ferrara and Modena workshops. This operation ensured greater technical and organisational efficiency. 
On 14 November 2018, the Local Trade Unions of Rimini and the Single Trade Union Representation - 
National Collective Labour Agreement for Water and Gas of the Rimini area signed a Meeting Report 
regarding introduction of a new on-call model, meeting the company(cid:859)s organisational needs, within the 
Romagna Aqueduct - Rimini Area. 
On 22 November 2018, in the Rimini area, the Local Trade Unions - Waste Management Division and the 
Single Trade Union Representation of Hera S.p.A. - National Collective Labour Agreement for Waste 
Management Services entered into a Memorandum of Understanding regarding a new multi-period work 
schedule for the personnel of Hera S.p.A.(cid:859)s Waste Management Services Department working as Collection 
and Sweeping Assistant. This new schedule complies with the provisions of the National Collective Labour 
Agreement for Waste Management Services and allowed work organisation productivity to improve. 
With regard to Herambiente S.p.A, on 11 June 2018, the Regional Fp Cgil, Fit Cisl, Uiltrasporti Uil and Fiadel 
Trade Unions and the Single Trade Union Representation signed a Meeting Report regarding the definition 
of new working hours, meeting the needs of personnel dealing with the management of the Chemical and 
Physical plants of Bologna, Modena and Lugo (Ravenna). In June and September, again with regard to 
working hours, the Local Trade Unions of Bologna - Waste Management and Chemical Divisions and the 
Single Trade Union Representation entered into three Memorandums of Understanding regarding a new 
work schedule for personnel dealing with the management of the Digestor in S. Agata Bolognese (Bologna). 
Specifically, in order to constantly monitor the plant start-up phase, the plant was temporarily manned on a 
continual basis, with H24 shifts, and an on-call service was implemented. 
With regard to Waste Recycling S.p.A., on 13 December 2018, with a view to gradually standardising the 
salaries and regulatory conditions applied to all Waste Recycling S.p.A. personnel, the Local Fp Cgil Trade 
Union  of  Pisa  and  the  Single  Trade  Union  Representation  of  Waste  Recycling  S.p.A.  entered  into  a 
Memorandum  of  Understanding  regarding  application  of  the  UTILITALIA  National  Collective  Labour 
Agreement  -  Waste  Management  Services  to  Waste  Recycling  S.p.A.  personnel  whose  employment 
relationship is now regulated by the National Collective Labour Agreement for Road Haulage - Industry. In 
particular, when switching to the new National Collective Labour Agreement, for drivers transporting extra-
municipal waste, given the specific nature of the tasks performed and in implementation of the derogation 
of the Shared Declaration of 18 June 2018 pursuant to art. 17 of the UTILITALIA National Collective Labour 
Agreement - Waste Management Services, the Parties agreed upon the following working hours:  
•  limit for ordinary working hours: 47 hours/week; 
•  maximum duration of a working week cannot exceed 58 hours, extended to 61 hours only if over a 
period of 6 months the average working hours do not exceed 58 hours/week; 
•  all hours worked beyond the limit indicated under previous letter a) will be regarded as overtime; 
•  the total number of overtime hours per capita is increased to 250 hours. 
On  the  basis  of  the  Hera  Group  Supplementary  Labour  Agreement  of  25  May  2017,  regarding  the 
experimental establishment of a participatory system, the projects for the 2018 working groups were 
defined and relevant training was delivered, aimed at sharing the meaning of participation, between the 
representatives of Hera Group(cid:859)s Company Management and the members of the Single Trade Union 
Representation. 
The Hera Group continued to cooperate with employers(cid:859) associations by taking part in commissions and 
delegations to prepare the Electricity, Gas/Water and Waste Management Services National Collective 
Labour Agreements. 
277 
 