The 5 winning non-profit organisations are listed below, each with their own specific project:  
•  ANT Italia Non-Profit Foundation: solidarity rhymes with sustainability for the purchase of a hybrid 
car for home care services 
•  Save the Children:  The Za(cid:859)atari camp in Jordan, working together to help the war refugees in Syria 
•  Donne  in  Rete  contro  la  violenza:  (Network  of  Women  against  violence):  support  through 
scholarships to women who are victims of violence 
•  Butterfly Non-Profit Organisation: donates water by rehabilitating 3 wells in Ethiopia 
•  AISM - Italian Multiple Sclerosis Association: funds research towards serious forms of multiple 
sclerosis. 
820 workers joined the project, accepting to donate Euro 1, 3, or 5 (or another amount) every month which 
was withheld directly from their payslip. 
An important new aspect of this last edition was the involvement of an external stakeholder: Hera(cid:859)s new 
customers may donate Euro 1 to one of the 5 non-profit organisations when signing a contract with Hera.  
But there is more; the company, as usual, wishes to play its part: HeraComm and HeraComm Marche will 
donate Euro 1 to every new customer during the two years of the project.  
At the end of 2018, approximately Euro 145 thousand were collected: over Euro 57,400 donated by 
employees through withdrawal from their payroll and Hextra (91% of the amount donated by workers in 
the previous edition, but in 2 years), the integrated corporate welfare system, over Euro 87,400 donated by 
Hera Comm and Hera Comm Marche. 
Diversity and inclusion index: Hera in the top 100 world ranking 
The Hera Group has been confirmed as one of the most interesting companies, in Italy and worldwide, for 
investors who sustain companies committed to promoting diversity and inclusion. Hera, with a score of 
73.5 points, proved to be the second company in Italy and the 22nd across the world in the Thomson 
Reuters Diversity and Inclusion Index. Moreover, its position within its own sector was outstanding, coming 
in first worldwide among multi-utilities. 
The Group continues its work in developing internal and personalised career paths, an approach that 
allowed the company to reach an amount of women in roles with responsibility coming to around 32% in 
2018. Rising overall, the percentage of female personnel furthermore ranked above the sector average 
(24.7%, as compared to 15.9%). These figures are accompanied by a percentage of employees with 
disabilities that reaches 4.5% of the company(cid:859)s total workforce and also includes roles in management.  
From  all  these  points  of  view, the  contribution  coming  from training  is  significant,  with  particularly 
important initiatives such as leadership and smart working courses favouring the development of human 
resources, based on factors including the diverse characteristics of each resource (gender, age, training, 
ability, inclination and skills), and undoubtedly from the corporate welfare plan, which sustains employees 
and their families in many different forms. Not by chance, encouraging results continue to emerge from the 
company climate survey, with further confirmation coming from a complete lack of disputes involving 
diversity and inclusion. 
Lastly,  many  initiatives  make  plurality  management  concrete,  including  a  range  of  work-life  balance 
programmes and arrangements set up for parental leave, available not only for mums and dads but also for 
those who provide assistance to relatives or the elderly.   
281 
 