The composition of the energy mix used for the generation of electricity sold by Hera Comm in 2017 is 
calculated according to the matters established by the decree of the Ministry for Economic Development 
dated 31 July 2009, and involves a portion from renewable sources equal to 9% (from the 19% of the 
previous year) for the customers of the free market and 3% (from the 16% of the previous year) for 
customers of the non-eligible market. The decrease in this percentage depends on the reduction in the 
Italian complementary mix, which for the renewable sources passed from 16% in 2016 to 2.7% in 2017. 
 
Qualification, selection and assessment of suppliers 
Supplier qualification and assessment system makes it possible to check the technical, economic, and 
organisational quality requirements, as well as the compliance with environmental and safety regulations 
and corporate social responsibility requisites, and the acceptance of the Group Code of Ethics. 
The Vendor Management system 
Since 2012 the vendor management system has represented the model for the self-registration and 
qualification of the suppliers and addresses all the companies interested in spontaneously proposing 
themselves in the Hera Group suppliers list, for any commodities category. Via the portal, the Group(cid:859)s 
suppliers can avail themselves of a number of tangible benefits in terms of transparency, opportunity, 
competitiveness and integrity of the data. 
Within the qualification area of the supplier portal, the companies can access the procurement product 
categories, making it possible to use the following services: 
•  independently update the profiles of interest, putting oneself forward for any new commodity 
groups within the accredited suppliers system; 
•  keep ones details up-to-date independently, as well as the schedule of the supplier qualification 
documents; 
•  check one(cid:859)s qualification and periodic assessment status; 
•  gain the possibility of being called more frequently to present bids; 
•  gain the possibility of receiving information relating to the awarding of a contract; 
•  being updated on the Group(cid:859)s initiatives of economic interest. 
Inclusion in the Hera supplier qualification system is handled on-line by means of the e-procurement 
platform, which also represents a useful communication instrument between the Group and the suppliers. 
This platform  envisages  an  annual membership  fee  in  keeping with the  number  of  commodity  sub-
categories of good groups which the supplier shows interest in, which varies from Euro 50 to 250. Having 
extended this instrument to public tenders as well as from 2011, the Hera Group confirms it as a best 
practice at Italian level in the use of evolved tools in the e-commerce sphere.  
During 2018, Hera traded over 99% of the total volumes on the e-procurement platform. When using this 
platform, the suppliers are supported by a dedicated help desk service. In 2018, there were 13,304 requests 
for information received, all sorted out in the timescales envisaged by company procedures.  
Another important aspect of the Vendor Management system is the monitoring of the companies who 
jointly take part in the performance of the contracts for the Hera Group in the role of sub-contractors, 
consortium executors or principals in temporary joint ventures. By means of the reporting generated by 
the monitoring activities, it is possible to improve the governance of the purchases, as well as extend the 
mechanisms for valuation and control envisaged by the Group procedures to all the companies involved in 
the execution of the tender, overseeing the entire chain of the economic parties involved in the service for 
various reasons. 
A process for the up-dating of the qualification documentation of all the suppliers continued during 2017 
and the first half of 2018, further to the publication of the New Tender Code (Italian Legislative Decree No. 
50/2016) and the subsequent adaptations introduced by Italian Legislative Decree No. 56/2017. 
284 
 