In September 2018, within the sphere of the process innovation projects, the new supplier qualification 
portal was inaugurated, with the purpose of simplifying the qualification process, the up-dating of the data 
and the usability of the information, guiding the uploading of the data to be input in the system. The new 
portal, permitting direct access for the supplier to each of the individual questions of the qualification 
document, considerably reduces both the data input timescales for initial qualification and the timescales 
for updating the data in the event of changes. The response to the supplier pool was positive: at the end of 
December 2018 already 35% of the supplier pool requalified themselves via the new portal. 
During  2018,  Marche  Multiservizi  continued  the  process  for  the  adoption  of  the  platform  for  the 
qualification, selection and assessment of the Group suppliers, which will conclude in 2019. Furthermore, in 
November 2018 it managed the first tender using the Group e-procurement platform. 
As from the  last  few  months  of  2017,  an  automatic  and  traceable  system  was  introduced  for  the 
alternation of the invitations to the suppliers to participate in private tenders which, basing itself on a 
series of parameters including the number of invitations received, their distribution over time and the 
Vendor Rating score, further guarantees the supplier selection process and the rotation of the same, with 
the utmost transparency and on a consistent basis with the Hera Group Guidelines. In the same way, this 
system permits greater communication between the suppliers and the company and absolute exactitude in 
the documental management. 
For the purpose of increasing the rate of participation of the suppliers in the tenders, the rotation system 
will be integrated, during 2019, with the new supplier qualification portal so as to assimilate within the 
rotation also the desire of the suppliers to operate solely in specific geographic areas, as specified by said 
suppliers in the qualification document. By means of this integration, it can be avoided that the automatic 
rotation system selects by means of invitation in a specific geographic area suppliers who do not desire to 
work in the same.  
The supplier qualification procedure  
Supplier  qualification  and  assessment  is  regulated  by  the  checking  of  the  technical,  economic,  and 
organisational quality requirements, compliance with environmental and safety regulations and corporate 
social responsibility requisites, as well as acceptance of the Group Code of Ethics. Furthermore, the supply 
contracts drawn up by the Group include termination clauses linked to the failure of suppliers to comply 
with  the  principles  of  the  Code  of  Ethics.  Therefore,  all  the  qualified  suppliers  are  subject  to  this 
assessment system. 
The Hera Group(cid:859)s supplier qualification process has been formalised within a specific procedure, by means 
of the establishment of a single list of reliable economic operators, handled by the Procurement and 
Tenders Department of Hera S.p.A. As and when necessary, the suppliers to be invited for the performance 
of the negotiated procedures are selected from this list. Therefore, the suppliers are selected for all the 
Group companies on the basis of qualification requirements divided up into: 
•  standard requirements: identical for any commodity category; 
•  specific requirements: linked to a specific commodity category. 
Among the various criteria identified by the Group for the qualification and selection of the new suppliers, 
of particular importance are those of an environmental and social nature, for example: 
•  declaration of acknowledgement and acceptance of: the Code of Ethics; General Quality-Safety-
Environment Regulations for contractors and/or autonomous workers operating for Hera; Quality, 
safety and environment policy; Personal data protection policy; Social responsibility policy SA 8000 
and Energy policy; 
•  fulfilment of the safety obligations envisaged by Italian law; 
•  observance of the current legislation referring to the right of the disabled to work; 
•  presence of employees facing social hardship within the company workforce with respect to the 
total; 
•  enrolment in the Regional Register of Social cooperatives; 
285 
 