prefectural  anti-mafia  information,  as  well  as  the  request  of  the  Criminal  Records  Office.  All  the 
documentation regarding the request, check and authorisation has been further standardised at Group 
level and reviewed for up-dates with the reference legislation, by the Group Regulations and Tender 
function. All the documentation is made available in the documental area of the supplier portal, to the 
companies and via the Company Information Portal, to all the employees.  
The fulfilments necessary for monitoring the activities of the sub-contractor companies at the worksite 
have  been  further  consolidated  (supplier  monitoring  check  list),  together  with  the  obligations  for 
permitting facilitated, correct and accurate monthly administrative reporting, inclusive of the accurate 
checking of the payments to employees used in the execution of the sub-contracting.  
The Group standard specifications, on a consistent basis with the reference legislation, envisage that the 
contractor pays the sub-contractors and that the former provides the works director with suitable proof 
within 20 days after payment by the Hera Group of each Progress Report (SAL) and/or Performance 
Certification Form (MAP). In the absence of proof, the works director/company contact informs the 
competent administration function of the suspension of the payment of the subsequent SALs/MAPs until 
payments are up-to-date. This method is alternative to the direct payment of the sub-contractors which 
can be activated during the course of the work. 
In 2018 approximately Euro 36 million was sub-contracted out, equal to 5.7% of the amount of work and 
services outsourced by the Group (excluding Marche Multiservizi), while the amounts disclosed for the sub-
contracting handled came to Euro 14 million. 
Times of payment as per contract 
The contractual average payment times of the supplies decreased progressively standing at the end of 
2018 at 79 days (excluding Marche Multiservizi), further to the contractual standardisation which defines 
average payment times of 60 days for the Hera Group.  
The monitoring of work accidents at suppliers 
So as to have a complete picture of the accident/injury impact relating to the activities carried out directly 
and indirectly, as from 2009 Hera has set itself the objective of monitoring the accident and injury indexes 
for  the  main  suppliers  of  work  and  services.  Their  specifications  and  tender  contracts  envisage  the 
forwarding of the (cid:862)Annual summary of the accidents or injuries occurring care of the contracting companies 
during the performance of activities on behalf of Hera(cid:863) form, via which each supplier is required to 
communicate its accident/injury indexes annually or at the end of the contractual period. As from 2015, 
this phase for the collation and analysis of the data was computerised using the SAP SRM platform. 
Monitoring of supplier accidents   
  2016  2017  2018 
Value of supplies of services and work (in 
634.6  727.5   745.2 
millions of Euro) 
Value ordered from suppliers under 
634.6  637.1  482.6 
monitoring (in millions of Euro) 
Value ordered from suppliers under 
100%  88%  88% 
monitoring (%) 
Value commissioned from suppliers who 
450.6  467.7  491.5 
have forwarded the monitoring 
Value ordered from suppliers who have 
forwarded the monitoring on the value 
71%  73%  75% 
commissioned from suppliers involved in the 
monitoring (%) 
Excluding Marche Multiservizi 
 
298 
 