 
Auditor’s Responsibility  
We are responsible for expressing, on the basis of the work performed, a conclusion regarding the compliance 
of the NFD with the Decree and the GRI Standards. We conducted our engagement in accordance with the 
principle "International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised) - Assurance Engagements 
Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information" (hereinafter "ISAE 3000 Revised"), issued 
by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) for limited assurance engagements. 
The standard requires that we plan and perform procedures to obtain a limited assurance that the NFD does 
not contain material errors. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement are less in scope than 
those performed in a reasonable assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 Revised ("reasonable 
assurance engagement") and, consequently, do not provide us with a sufficient level of assurance to become 
aware of all significant facts and circumstances that could be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement. 
The procedures performed on the NFD are based on our professional judgment and consisted of interviews, 
primarly with the company personnel responsible for the preparation of the NFD, in the analysis of documents, 
recalculations and other procedures aimed at obtaining evidence as appropriate. 
 
In particular, we carried out the following procedures: 
 
1.  analysis of the relevant topics reported in the NFD relating to the activities and characteristics of the Group, 
in order to assess the reasonableness of the selection process used, in accordance with article 3 of the 
Decree, with the reporting standard adopted; 
2.  analysis and assessment of the criteria used to identify the consolidation area, to assess its compliance with 
the Decree; 
3.  comparing the economic and financial information reported in the NFD with the information reported in 
the Hera Group's Consolidated Financial Statements; 
4.  understanding of the following matters: 
▪  business and organisational model of the Group, with reference to the management of the topics 
specified by art. 3 of the Decree; 
▪  policies adopted by the Group with reference to the topics specified by art. 3 of the Decree, actual 
results and related key performance indicators; 
▪  main risks, generated or faced by the Group, with reference to the topics specified by art. 3 of the 
Decree. 
With reference to such matters, we carried out some validation procedures on the information presented 
in the NFD and some controls, as described under point 5, letter a) below; 
5.  understanding of the processes underlying the preparation, collection and management of the qualitative 
and quantitative material information included in the NFD.  
 
In particular, we held meetings and interviews with the management of Hera S.p.A. and Hera S.p.A., Hera 
Trading S.r.l., Inrete Distribuzione Energia S.p.A., Uniflotte S.r.l., Hera Comm S.r.l., Herambiente S.p.A., 
Frullo Energia Ambiente S.r.l., AcegasApsAmga S.p.A., AcegasApsAmga Servizi Energetici S.p.A., Hera 
Luce S.r.l., Marche Multiservizi S.p.A. and we performed limited analysis and validation procedures, in 
order to collect information about the processes and procedures that support the collection, aggregation, 
processing and submission of non-financial information to the Department responsible for the preparation 
of the NFD. 
 
Moreover, for significant information, considering the activities and characteristics of the Group:  
▪  at parent company’s and subsidiaries’ level: 
a) with reference to the qualitative information included in the NFD, and in particular to the business 
model, the policies adopted and the main risks, we carried out interviews and obtained supporting 
documentation to verify its consistency with the available evidence; 
b) with reference to quantitative information, we performed analytical procedures and limited tests, in 
order to assess, on a sample basis, the consolidation of the information. 
2 
 