for heat generation by installing new condensing boilers, heat pumps, and insulating building envelopes by 
installing thermal insulation and replacing windows and doors with better-performing types. The offer is 
completed by modern energy management, provided under an (cid:862)Energy Service(cid:863) contractual model. 
Implementing several measures can achieve savings of 8 to 18%, depending on consumption and previous 
measures on the envelopes and can be combined with the seismic upgrading of the buildings. 
Under this model, energy efficiency measures can be financed with the energy savings provided by those 
same measures, and when possible, without increasing the current expense level of the recipient of the 
measures. 
ASE is the Hera Group company dedicated to public administration tenders for energy service, facility 
management, operation and maintenance. In 2018, as a result of the tenders it won, it invested Euro 10 
million. 
 
Energy-saving commercial offers 
In 2018, we confirmed our commitment to environmental sustainability and energy efficiency, with added-
value  services  that  provide  consumption  monitoring  and  reduction  for  Hera  Comm(cid:859)s  household  and 
business customers. 
The consumption analysis report is a free service that Hera Comm makes available to its customers and 
helps them compare their energy consumption with that of a similar household in size, in the same 
province and that uses a similar amount of energy (for domestic customers). The report also compares your 
consumption in the same period of the previous year and provides advice on how to optimize energy use. 
All the data are also accessible on the (cid:862)Consumption Analysis(cid:863) web platform, accessible from Online 
Services and in the dedicated section of the My Hera app. 
Hera has experimentally carried out an initial analysis on a sample of customers who receive consumption 
analysis reports for their electricity contracts, compared to a control sample of customers who do not 
receive it, to assess its effects in terms of reducing consumption. The two samples were identified using 
statistical methods, taking care to ensure homogeneity by period of consumption, by geographical location 
(to compensate the effects of external temperature) and by type of consumption. 
The analysis showed a saving of about 2.5%, due to the effect of behavioural changes adopted by the 
customers receiving the report, as they had become aware of their consumption habits. 
Given the positive result of these experimental analyses, we are now optimizing the service; in particular, 
we are working on the following aspects: 
•  simplification of the information stimuli provided by the report; 
•  simplification of the language used in the report; 
•  modification of customer clustering algorithms for comparison with (cid:862)similar customers(cid:863). 
This service is now available for electricity, gas and district heating, and we will gradually it also to 
residential water service customers during 2019. 
The Hera LED option can be combined with many of Hera Comm(cid:859)s free market offers, for both new and 
existing customers, and offers customers one or two sets of 10 LED bulbs per contract at a 30% discount on 
their market value. Replacing an incandescent bulb with a high-efficiency LED bulb can save up to 80% 
energy. As stated in the product specifications, a 9 W LED bulb replaces a 60 W incandescent bulb. So if we 
consider an average daily use of 4h/day, an LED bulb consumes about 13 kWh/year compared to the 88 
kWh/year of an equivalent incandescent bulb, significantly reducing costs and benefiting the environment.  
The Hera thermo option lets customers control the gas consumption of their home thanks to a smart, 
remotely controllable thermostat. Using it leads to a greater attention to how the gas is used: in fact, the 
app makes it easy to check the temperature set in the house and check the operation of the boiler at any 
34 
 