Glossary 
Population Equivalent (pe) 
The concept of population equivalent was developed to enable the comparison of various types of sewage (municipal, 
household, industrial) in terms of organic pollution. Using conversion factors, an estimation is made of how many 
inhabitants would be required to produce (with normal domestic  sewage) the  same amount of pollution. By 
definition, one population equivalent corresponds to 60 g of BOD  per day. 
5
Regulatory Authority for Energy, Networks and the Environment (ARERA) 
Formally independent authority established under Law 481/1995 which has the goal of promoting the development of 
competitive markets in the electricity and methane sectors, mainly by regulating rates, network access, market 
operation and protecting the interests of end users. In 2012, the ARERA was assigned functions in the area of the 
quality, rates and costs of integrated water services and in 2018 functions concerning waste management services. 
Water and Waste Regulatory Authority (ATO) 
Pursuant to Law 36/1994, the Water and Waste Regulatory Authorities define the local level of organization of 
integrated water services to overcome the fragmentation of management and to reach suitable sizes for the areas 
served. 
Ammoniacal Nitrogen 
The term ammoniacal nitrogen (NH ) identifies the concentration of ammonia ions in water. It provides an index of 
4
biodegradation of nitrogenous organic substances. It is expressed in mg/l. 
Biogas 
The term biogas identifies a mixture of types of gas (mainly methane) produced by natural bacterial fermentation (in 
anaerobic conditions, i.e. in the absence of oxygen) of organic residues from waste. 
BOD 
The term BOD (biochemical oxygen demand) is used to define the amount of oxygen consumed during a specific time 
period (5 days for BOD ), at a given temperature, to biodegrade the organic matter present in the water via bacterial 
5
action (uptake of oxygen by micro-organisms). High biochemical oxygen demand indicates intense biodegradation of 
organic matter, and may highlight the presence of organic pollution. It is therefore an indirect measure of pollution 
levels. Its value is expressed in mg/l. 
Bond 
A  listed  financial  instrument  of  indebtedness  issued  by  a  company.  These  are  long-term  loans:  investors  are 
guaranteed the right to annual interest payments at a fixed rate, with return of the capital on a set date. 
Services Charter 
A Services Charter is a document that any entity that supplies a public service uses to outline its performance 
standards, declaring its goals and recognizing specific rights to the public/users/consumers, and therefore to pledge to 
respect specific levels of quality and quantity, with the intention of monitoring and improving its supply and 
management methods. It was set by law 273/95, which stated that all suppliers of public services must adopt their 
own Services Charters on the basis of the general guidelines issued for specific sectors. 
Green Certificate (GC) 
GCs offer incentives to generate electricity from renewable sources. As required by law 244/07, GCs are issued by the 
Energy Services Manager (ESM) and concerns the production of electricity from renewable sources of the previous 
year or the production expected during the current year or during the following year. They represent 1 MWh of 
electricity. Each individual producer or importer must feed into the grid for 2012 a 7.55% share of electricity produced 
by renewable sources: this quota decreases linearly starting in 2013 and reaches zero in the year 2015. The 
requirement can also be satisfied by purchasing GCs from other parties. 
 
COD 
The term COD (chemical oxygen demand) identifies the amount of oxygen required for the complete oxidation of 
organic and inorganic compounds present in a water sample. Thus, this is an index for measuring the degree of 
pollution, mainly organic, in the water from substances which can be oxidized. It is expressed in mg/l. 
Code of Ethics 
343 
 