This term is used to describe mutual investment funds whose choice of shares, bonds and government securities is 
inspired by ethical selection criteria. These parameters are defined as exclusion/inclusion. 
Renewable Energy Sources 
Renewable  energy  sources  are:  wind,  solar,  geothermal,  wave  motion,  tidal,  hydraulic,  biomass,  landfill  gas, 
purification process residual gas and biogas. Biomass means the biodegradable part of products, waste and residues 
generated by farming (including vegetable and animal substances), forestry and associated industries, as well as the 
biodegradable part of industrial and municipal waste. 
Greenhouse Gases 
These gases are transparent with respect to solar radiation, and prevent the dispersion of heat from the Earth, thus 
leading to the overheating of the atmosphere. Over and above greenhouse gases of natural origin, the main 
greenhouse gases produced by mankind are carbon dioxide, methane, chlorofluorocarbons and nitrogen oxides. 
Geothermics 
The science that studies the internal energy of the Earth and its practical applications as an energy source. 
KPI 
Key Performance Indicators are specific indicators selected on the basis of corporate information needs They are used 
to carry out corporate monitoring. KPIs may be financial, production-oriented, commercial, environmental or social in 
nature, or may regard multiple aspects. 
Mobility Management 
Mobility management identifies an internal corporate department in charge of managing staff commuting. 
Nm3 
Normal cubic metre, the volume of gas at 0 °C and 0.1 MPa. 
OHSAS 18001: 2007 
The OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health & Safety Assessment Series) standard is an internationally recognized 
benchmark for the certification of workplace health and safety management systems. 
Nitrogen Oxides 
Nitrogen oxides (mainly NO and NO ), gases produced by the combustion of fossil materials. Nitrogen oxides 
2
contribute to the formation of ozone in the lower atmosphere and acid rain. 
PCB (polychlorinated biphenyls) 
Highly toxic organic compounds used in a wide range of applications e.g. as fluids for capacitors and transformers. 
When managing and disposing of them careful attention must be paid to ensure they are not released into the 
environment, in accordance with laws in force. 
Leachate 
The substance resulting from water and other liquid mixtures filtering through waste. 
PM  
10
Particulate matter of a diameter of less than 10 microns generated by a broad range of natural and man-made 
sources, PM  includes a diverse variety of solid or liquid particles that tend to remain suspended in the air, due to 
10
their small size. 
Heat Pump 
A device capable of transferring heat from a body at a lower temperature to a body at a higher temperature, using 
electricity. 
Waste 
Legislative Decree 22/1997 defines waste as (cid:862)any substance or object which the holder discards or intends or is 
required to discard(cid:863). This decree classifies waste based on its origin, as urban or special, and, according to the level of 
hazardousness, as hazardous or non-hazardous. 
SA 8000 
International certification standard regarding respect for human rights, respect for workers(cid:859) rights, safeguards against 
exploitation of minors, and guarantees with respect to workplace health and safety conditions. 
345 
 