Default Service 
The default service is activated by the distributor responsible for the area when under certain circumstances, a 
customer has no supplier but is still connected to the network and can therefore continue to draw off gas. In such 
cases the provision of gas is assigned to a specific vendor selected by the Single Purchaser (Acquirente Unico) by 
means of a tendering process. 
TSS 
The term TSS (total suspended solids), which are the cause of the turbidity of liquids, means the total of suspended 
solids and filterable solids. This represents the total amount of substances present in the sample following drying, at 
105 °C. Its value is expressed in mg/l. 
Stakeholders 
Stakeholders are persons with vested interests. They may or may not belong to the company of which they are a 
stakeholder, with different interests and needs, and they may have a bearing on the decisions, conduct or success of a 
company. 
Sustainable Development 
(cid:862)Sustainable development is development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of 
future generations to meet their own needs(cid:863) (Bruntland Report, World Commission for Economic Development, 
1987). 
District Heating 
Remote distribution of heat generated by thermoelectric power stations, cogeneration plants or waste-to-energy 
plants using an energy carrier (hot water, superheated water, or steam). 
toe 
Tonne of oil equivalent. The conventional unit of measurement of sources of energy defined as 10,000 Mcal, the 
amount of energy released by burning one tonne of crude oil. 
Waste-to-Energy Plant 
A plant that uses waste as a fuel to produce heat or energy. 
Primary Treatment 
Aims to remove mainly organic TSS (Total Suspended Solids) from the in-flowing liquid waste. The process can be 
facilitated by using special flocculants that increase the degree of aggregation of the particles and therefore their 
sedimentation. 
Secondary Treatment 
Aims to remove biodegradable organic matter and remove solids in colloidal form, non-sedimentable and, therefore, 
not separable by physical treatments. 
Tertiary Treatment 
Aims to improve purification by reducing the load of nutrients (phosphorus and nitrogen) in the secondary effluent. In 
some cases tertiary treatment eliminates poorly biodegradable substances that have not been eliminated by the 
bacterial metabolic treatment. 
Turboexpander 
Machine that transforms a given kind of energy (e.g. potential energy) into mechanical energy, made available for use 
via a rotating shaft. The resulting energy may in turn be used for the production of other energy (e.g. by coupling an 
alternator to the turbine to enable the alternator to exploit the mechanical energy to produce electricity). 
EN ISO 9001:2008 
International technical standard for the certification of quality management systems. 
EN ISO 14001: 2004 
International technical standard for the certification of environmental management systems. 
346 
 