Electricity produced from renewable sources is equal to 36.7% of the total in 2018, up compared to the 
previous year. 35.8% is generated by cogeneration and turboexpansion, high energy efficiency systems. 
Together, the two categories account for 72.6% of the electricity produced. The remaining production has a 
high level of environmental sustainability, as it is energy recovered from waste-to-energy transformation 
for the share exceeding 51%. 
Incentives to generate electricity using green certificates are awarded to plants fuelled by renewable 
sources which started operating by 31 December 2012 and to cogeneration plants combined with district 
heating networks which started operating by 31 December 2009. In both cases, the amount of energy 
incentivised is not exactly equal to the amount of electricity produced. In the first case, for plants that 
started operations after 2007, multiplication coefficients were introduced that take into account the plant(cid:859)s 
technology: for example, if landfill biogas is used, the recognition awarded is calculated by multiplying the 
energy generated by 0.8. For non-agricultural biomass with a short supply chain, the factor is 1.3. In the 
second case, the incentive is proportional to the sale of cogenerated useful heat to district heating network 
users. Starting from 2016, any remaining right to the issue of green certificates has been converted into an 
incentive for the electricity produced, as required by Italian Ministerial Decree of 6 July 2012. 
For waste-derived electricity, the energy recognised for earning incentives, and to which the above-
mentioned factors apply, is limited to the biodegradable portion, since it is considered a renewable source 
by European and Italian regulations. Italian Ministerial Decree of 6 July 2012 defines the criteria for 
evaluating this portion on a flat rate basis, set at 51% for waste-to-energy plants that use municipal waste 
downstream from separate waste collection. In calculating the share of energy produced from renewable 
sources, a figure of 51% was considered for both electricity and thermal energy produced from waste-to-
energy plants, applying the flat-rate criteria. This percentage was assumed as applied to all waste disposed 
of in waste-to-energy plants (municipal and special) and for all the three years considered, in order to have 
consistent terms of comparison defined in accordance with the regulations in force. The one exception is 
the  special-waste  waste-to-energy  plant  in  Ravenna,  whose  production  is  given  a  biodegradability 
coefficient of nearly zero since the waste it treats is considered non-renewable, because it comes from 
industrial processes. 
For  cogeneration  plants,  the  Ministerial  Decree  of  4  August  2011,  implementing  Legislative  Decree 
20/2007, establishes the methods for calculating cogeneration production and the performance level the 
cogeneration process must achieve in order to qualify as high-performance cogeneration. The subsequent 
decree of the Ministry of Economic Development of 5 September 2011 determines a new support regime 
for cogeneration: this incentive is based on white certificates and is recognised by the Energy Services 
Manager, after attributing the qualification of cogeneration, according to the actual primary energy savings 
achieved. 
 
38 
 