The purchases of renewable energy are guaranteed by the Certificates of Guarantee of Origin (GO), which 
attest precisely their origin from renewable sources. For each MWh of renewable electricity fed into the 
grid by qualified plants, the GSE (national electric grid manager) issues a GO certificate, in accordance with 
Directive 2009/28/EC. With effect from 1 January 2013, sales companies are obliged to purchase a quantity 
of GO securities equal to the renewable electricity sold, by 31 March of the year following that in which 
renewable electricity was supplied to customers finals. 
The commitment to reduce our customers’ carbon footprint 
We implemented many activities to help our customers reduce their emissions by using better tools to 
control their consumption or by implementing energy saving measures. 
In 2018, the offer of energy-saving solutions to Hera Comm customers continued, such as the Consumption 
Analysis Report, Hera LED, Hera Thermo and Hera ContaWatt, described in the chapter dedicated to energy 
efficiency.  
The Hera Group also, via its subsidiaries Hera Servizi Energia and AcegasApsAmga Servizi Energetici works 
actively in energy efficiency improvement services, mainly addressing condominiums (who are offered a 
range of energy efficiency improvement solutions among which a system that provides individual metering 
of the heat and energy service), to large industrial customers (for which it operates as an ESCO) and the 
public administration (heat management with renovation of thermal plants and buildings). 
In particular, in the industrial cogeneration sector, Hera offers multi-year energy supply contracts through 
the development and management of electricity and thermal energy production plants dedicated to 
meeting all the energy needs of top customers (15 plants operated, of which 3 are trigeneration plants, and 
over 14,227 tonnes of CO  avoided in 2018). 
2
In collaboration with external partners, the Hera team provides its own know-how to support energy audits 
and implementation of measures. As reported in the third edition of our (cid:862)Value to energy(cid:863) report on 
energy efficiency, Hera has supported the creation of 507 projects (from 2007 to 2019) of which 133 at 
companies in its service area, that saved 753 thousand toe, equal to the annual electricity consumption of 
about 529 thousand households and 1.4 million tonnes of CO  avoided. 
2
The electricity Hera Comm sells is partly generated from renewable sources. In 2017, the renewable share 
was 9% (was 19% in the previous year). Customers can check the share of renewables in the table 
published in their bill. The energy mix shown in the bills is calculated by the Energy Services Manager (GSE) 
by means of a complex procedure defined by the Ministry of Economic Development (as per Ministerial 
Decree of 31 July 2009). In detail, the electricity from renewable sources sold by Hera Comm is made up of 
two parts: 
•  the renewable electricity that the Hera Group offers customers who choose this type of energy 
with the aforementioned (cid:862)Pacchetto Natura(cid:863). Thanks to Hera Group(cid:859)s initiatives, the quantity of 
renewable electricity sold through specific offers from 2016 to 2018 has tripled (12% in 2018); 
•  the renewable part of the electricity that the Group purchases on the wholesale market, for 
customers who decide to not use renewable energy. In fact, part of the electricity bought on the 
wholesale market is from renewable sources, but at the time of purchase there is no distinction by 
source. This is only reported in the year following the year of sale. From 2015 to 2017 the share of 
electricity from renewable sources in the wholesale market has dropped from 27% to 3%. 
The combination of these two factors (the growth in direct demand for electricity from renewable sources 
on the one hand and the vertical drop in the share of renewable sources in the wholesale market on the 
other) means that the percentage of energy from renewable sources purchased by the Group has 
decreased overall. 
46 
 