renovation part and for the (cid:862)passive(cid:863) interventions, while a second tranche is planned for 2019. At the end 
of Thermal Year 2018-2019, the expected further reduction due to the investments may be confirmed.  
Value to Energy fourth edition: energy efficiency for us and for our customers among the priorities 
In the fourth edition of the (cid:862)Value to Energy(cid:863) report, published in November 2018 (2017 data), the Hera 
Group reported to its stakeholders the results it achieved in the last eleven years, in terms of energy 
efficiency.  Verified  by  an  independent  certification  body,  the  report  analyses  all  the  aspects  of  the 
multiutility(cid:859)s  commitment  to  saving  and  efficiently  using  energy,  in  the  name of  environmental and 
economic sustainability, in the interests of the area it serves and of its over 4 million customers. 
From 2007 to 2017, the Group implemented 507 projects to save energy (of which 133 thanks to the 
collaboration and support of local businesses), saving 753 thousand toe (tonnes of oil equivalent), the 
annual consumption of 529 thousand households, and avoiding the release of 1.4 million tonnes of CO  
2
avoided, equivalent to about one million fewer cars in circulation in a year (each travelling 10,000 km).  
Decarbonisation is crucial to fight climate change. This is the direction taken by both by our energy 
efficiency measures and by the other projects to promote the production of energy from renewable 
sources explained in the (cid:862)Value to energy(cid:863) report.  
Energy efficiency has always been a fundamental objective for Hera Group, as we are committed to 
constant seek and develop innovative solutions for both process control systems and plants. Energy 
efficiency is also considered the (cid:862)fifth fuel(cid:863): the cheapest, with the greatest environmental benefit and one 
that can be generated by everyone, every day. Hera(cid:859)s commitment on this front is shown by its results and 
also by Hera being given the CESEF Energy Efficiency Award, for 2018.  
 
Spreading renewable energy 
Hera biomethane from waste 
From  organic  waste  to  biomethane  that  can  directly  reach  homes  after  being  fed  into  distribution 
networks. The project consists in producing methane from renewable sources, specifically by anaerobically 
biodegrading the organic fraction of separate waste, to be done at the Sant(cid:859)Agata Bolognese composting 
plant.  
Hera has been producing biogas for years, using biodigesters and landfills, and using it to generate 
electricity; the next big step is to refine it to make biomethane like the gas that is piped to households. This 
system is an initial embodiment that will use the organic fraction of separate municipal waste as raw 
material to produce biomethane and will also become fuel for methane-powered vehicles for local public 
transport. 
The process begins with a semi-dry, continuous flow anaerobic biodigester where the organic waste is 
anaerobically digested, producing biogas and the digestate. The digestate is then sent to the subsequent 
composting step that comprises oxidation and final screening, to obtain high quality compost. The biogas is 
sent to an upgrading section to remove undesired components and obtain methane gas that meets the 
specifications for being injected into the network. This process is the foundation of a perfect circular 
economy in which food waste makes natural gas that can be used to cook more food or even be used for 
heating and for vehicles. 
The biodigester will be able to process 100 thousand tonnes per year of organic waste and 35 thousand 
tonnes of pruning material from separate waste collection, and starting in 2018 it will produce about 7.5 
million m3 per year of biomethane and about 20,000 tonnes of compost.  
In December 2018, after an initial start-up phase, the biomethane produced began to be injected into 
SNAM(cid:859)s network. The biomethane injected into the grid is sold for powering motor vehicles; by doing so 
48 
 