led to a response that totalled about 10 tonnes of material collected, of which about 4.5 tonnes just in 
Hera(cid:859)s service area. 
At the moment there is no news, from the proponents, of a new edition of the initiative in 2019. Hera 
remains available to support a new edition. 
 
Lastly, among the initiatives with solidarity content, during 2018 Hera started a process to reorganize the 
(cid:862)textile waste collection activities(cid:863), typically for used clothes and fabrics. 
In the past, these activities were carried out on the basis of agreements between municipalities and various 
social cooperation operators, private operators and non-profit organizations, sometimes present at the 
same time in the individual municipalities. To ensure adequate transparency on the collection of used 
clothing and its social aims, in 2018 Hera carried out special tenders in Emilia open to all market operators, 
including social cooperatives. The tenders involved the award of an increase of the auction base to the 
benefit of the share of revenue reserved for the municipalities concerned by the service.  
The collection of used clothes provides no margin for Hera and the economic result obtained, net of 
covering the costs of the service, can be allocated by the individual municipalities either to reduce the costs 
of the municipal waste collection service for residents (therefore of the TARI or of quantity-based tariff 
taxes) or, alternatively, to specific non-profit organizations identified by the same municipalities.  
Several types of interested operators took part in the tenders, and if successful, and they were all 
committed to offer open-ended job contracts to personnel who had worked for the outgoing operators for 
at least 90 days. 
The operators awarded in Emilia started their activities in July in the province of Bologna and in October in 
the provinces of Modena and Ferrara. The resources made available to the municipalities of the province of 
Bologna in 2018 were allocated for about 25% to deduct the costs of the municipal waste collection service 
and about 75% to non-profit organizations of the area, identified by the municipalities themselves. At the 
date of preparation of this report, the report on the allocation of resources available in 2018 to the 
municipalities of the provinces of Modena and Ferrara and their destination was in the process of being 
prepared.  
Operators awarded the contracts will be involved in 2019 for reporting of the traceability and recycling of 
textiles collected, as part of the preparation of the report (cid:862)Tracking Waste(cid:863), 2019 edition. 
Waste prevention initiatives 
The European Directive 2008/98/EC on waste, transposed into Italian law by Legislative Decree 205/2010, 
defines the following hierarchy for the prevention and management of waste: 
  prevention; 
●
  preparation for reuse; 
●
  recycling; 
●
  other types of recovery, such as energy recovery; 
●
  disposal. 
●
Waste prevention is also confirmed as a priority action by the European circular economy package, 
referenced in one of the case studies in this chapter, which, among other things, includes a target for 
preventing food waste, for which the agreement reached by the three-way meeting held in December 2017 
set indicative targets of 30% by end 2025 and 50% by end 2030, compared to the quantity generated in 
2014. 
Emilia-Romagna(cid:859)s Regional Law 16/2015 on (cid:862)Provisions in support of the circular economy, the reduction of 
the production of municipal waste, the reuse of end-of-life goods, separate collection and amendments to 
Regional Law 31 of 19 August 1996(cid:863) also addresses waste prevention, including the possibility to grant, 
62 
 