within the framework of the regulation on waste management service fees, incentives for companies that 
implement waste prevention measures. 
During  2018,  Hera  has  developed  and  participated  in  many  initiatives  aimed  at  encouraging  waste 
prevention. This commitment is in line with the new European, national and regional regulations which, as 
seen  above,  introduce  prevention  and  reuse  objectives  as  an  essential  part  of  integrated  waste 
management. These initiatives have enabled us to prevent the production of around 9,000 tonnes of waste, 
equivalent to the annual output of about 14,700 people. 
Some of the most significant initiatives included: Among the most significant initiatives there are (cid:862)Cambia il 
finale(cid:863) (Change the ending), (cid:862)FarmacoAmico(cid:863) (MedicineFriend), (cid:862)Cibo Amico(cid:863) (Food friend), (cid:862)Hera2O(cid:863) and 
(cid:862)Sorgenti Urbane(cid:863) (Urban Springs) which are covered by special in-depth sections of this Sustainability 
Report (case histories). 
Reuse area 
Since 2018, Hera has been offering citizens a further opportunity to reduce waste production and extend 
the life-cycle of products. On the proposal of HeraLAB of Ferrara, the laboratory for the area, activated by 
Hera to promote dialogue and relations with the local community, created a new Reuse Area inside the 
drop-off point in via Caretti in Ferrara. The initiative started by joining the Cambia il finale (Change the 
Ending) project (described in a case study of this Report) and is helped by the non-profit organization 
Officina68 of Ferrara. It is a real box inside the Hera Waste Collection Centre in via Caretti, open from 
Monday to Saturday from 8:30 am to 6 pm and also on Sunday afternoon from 2 pm to 6 pm. Residents can 
bring furniture, tables, chairs, beds and nets, bookshelves, crockery, books and various other items as long 
as they are in good condition. Everything brought by citizens is for all intents and purposes a donation and 
at the time of delivery documentation will be completed as a receipt of the donation. The material is then 
delivered to Officina68, which dispatches the goods considered suitable to be reused. With this initiative, 
every time a citizen goes to the drop-off point, he or she can therefore choose whether to give a second 
chance of life to his goods by using the Reuse Area or whether to send it for recovery of material, through 
the recycling chains. Through the activities of the non-profit organizations involved in the project, the 
Reuse Area also has social aims, offering support to sensitive sections of the population, making used goods 
available and creating job opportunities for the unemployed, disabled or disadvantaged. 
The Reuse Centres 
(cid:862)Second Life(cid:863), is a reuse area launched in September 2011 together with the Municipality of Bologna, next 
to a separate waste collection centre. In 2018, the facility was operated by the social cooperative (cid:862)Open 
Group(cid:863). During 2017 (most recent data available), Second Life received more than 90,000 objects (slightly 
down compared to 2016), putting almost all of them back into circulation. The most-exchanged items are 
clothes (43% of incoming and outgoing items), plates, cake-pans, dishes in general (14% of incoming and 
outgoing items), books (13% of incoming and outgoing items).  
In order to avoid that goods still in good condition become waste and are disposed of in landfills or enter 
the recycling chain, Marche Multiservizi has joined the Marche Regional Government(cid:859)s Reuse Centres 
project (resolution 1719 of 18 December 2010). The Pesaro Centre is purposely included among the 
Collection Centres where reusable objects collected in the area are grouped and displayed in order to be 
redistributed free of charge to users who request them, subject to special regulations. The objects can also 
be disposed of directly by the citizens and are mainly furniture, furnishing accessories, crockery, household 
goods, gifts, toys and sports items. 
Trashware 
Developed by Student Association S.P.R.I.Te. in partnership with the Municipality of Cesena, Hera and the 
Campus of the University of Cesena, the project represents a reference point in the area for those that wish 
to get rid of old but functioning computer equipment and for all parties that need reconditioned computers 
for basic computer activities. The objective of the project is to recover PCs and computer components in 
63 
 