The plants treat waste from industrial scrap and from separate municipal waste collection. The 2017-2018 
trend of incoming waste increased (from approximately 83 thousand to 85 thousand tonnes). This waste 
has been transformed into new products or transferred to third party companies that operate in the 
recycling sector (about 14 thousand tonnes). The Aliplast Group directly recycles a significant portion of the 
incoming waste and discards only a small percentage because it is made up of non-recyclable polymers or 
because of weight loss due to the presence of liquids. The reduction in the percentage of incoming waste 
sent for material recovery from 2017 to 2018 is the result of two factors: (i) the start-up of the PET washing 
plant at the Borgolavezzaro plant, which recycles PET bottles with a waste percentage that is typically 
higher than that of PE recycling; (ii) the choice – as a result of the external macroeconomic context – to 
reduce the collection of low quality plastic waste, to focus on high quality, more suitable for the production 
of finished products. 
The secondary raw material from the incoming waste is used to produce recycled plastic products. In 2018 
Aliplast sold about 84,100 tonnes of recycled plastic products (compared to about 80,600 in 2017). Of 
these, 76% of the content is made up of the secondary raw material made from the plastic waste. 
Products sold by Aliplast by type (2018) 
Other
4% polymers
(PEHD, PS,
PP)
47% PE
49%
PET
 
 
The  food  industry  demands  high  safety  standards  and  strict  compliance  with  current  food  industry 
regulations. Aliplast(cid:859)s range of products, entirely certified at European level for food contact, consists of 
polymers  in  granules  and  flakes,  and  PET  rigid  film  for  thermoforming  and  extrusion,  ideal  for  the 
production of food trays and bottles. 
In 2018 Aliplast developed an IT tool for calculating the carbon footprint of five types of products, as 
described in greater detail in a case study in this Sustainability Report.  
Recovery of industrial waste with Hasi and Waste Recycling 
Herambiente Servizi Industriali is the Group company that offers solutions to businesses for the proper 
treatment of industrial waste. A key element of its offer is the identification of the optimal solution to 
recover  and  recycle,  which  ensures  maximum  traceability  and  compliance  with  all  environmental 
regulations so as to minimize landfill disposal. Starting in 2015, a special area for customers was added to 
Herambiente(cid:859)s website to provide, for each contract, real time information on the treatment operations, 
showing where each was sent to and the recovery percentage reached versus the total waste disposed of. 
During 2018, our commercial strategy was aimed at creating value for the Group and for its customers, also 
due to synergies with the recently acquired companies, proposing solutions that are increasingly oriented 
towards environmental sustainability: 
•  optimization of internal processes; 
•  maximizing recovery, in some cases with a 100% recovery target; 
69 
 