Hera Group(cid:859)s distribution network covers 35,144 kilometres and, where possible, is interconnected and 
linked in order to ensure supply continuity even in the event of temporary interruptions of one or more 
pipelines. 
Water network components 
%  2016  2017  2018 
Plastic  52.9%  53.1%  53.7% 
Asbestos-cement  20.9%  20.8%  20.5% 
Steel  17.0%  16.9%  16.6% 
Cast iron  8.4%  8.4%  8.5% 
Other materials  0.8%  0.8%  0.7% 
Total  100.0%  100.0%  100% 
 
The amount of asbestos cement in the water network is continuing to decrease, and accounted for 20.5% 
of the Group(cid:859)s share in 2018. The slight decrease is due to use of materials other than asbestos cement in 
new networks or in those subject to extraordinary maintenance. Over the last 3 years the Group has 
replaced approximately 60 kilometres of asbestos cement mesh. 
Actions for drought risk prevention 
Our  reaffirmed  commitment  to  protection of water  resources  led  us,  during  2018  to  identify  major 
measures to enhance and renovate the aqueduct infrastructure by 2030, to counter the effects of 
droughts, increase the reliability of supply and the overall resilience of the systems, increasingly called to 
support new operating conditions to better cope with current climate change. In this regard, various 
scenarios have been defined, which can be grouped on the one hand to the integration or partial 
replacement of sources currently exploited, and on the other hand to the creation of interconnections to 
allow the exchange of resources and the possibility of dealing with emergency conditions. 
The project for the collection of water from the Emiliano Romagnolo Canal, which will allow an increase of 
about 50% in the available flow rates from surface sources, serving the municipalities of the Bolognese 
plain, is within the first scenario of development. Also the design assumption of exploiting the volumes 
accumulated at the artificial lake of Brasimone in the area of Camugnano will allow to make up for the 
water shortage in the summer periods, which in the past was dealt with using in emergency with tanker 
trucks. 
Interconnection work between aqueduct systems have already been started in Romagna to connect to the 
Siepi-Pianacci facility of the San Leo backbone, aimed at ensuring reliability of supply in the municipality of 
San Leo in dry weather. Other important interconnection projects in the Emilia region are also being 
planned, such as the one that will connect the primary system of Bologna with the Castelfranco Emilia 
aqueduct or, in the Modena area, the interconnections between the Secchia Valley and the Panaro Valley. 
In addition to the new work described above, we would like to mention what we have done in recent years, 
which have made it possible to cope with a particularly dry summer in 2017, an exceptional condition that 
could occur again in the future. In the Apennines, the Modena area has been equipped over the years with 
infrastructure designed to manage the water requirements and the original municipal aqueducts have been 
interconnected so that the physical integration of each of them makes up an infrastructure system capable 
of mutuality and subsidiarity. The saturation of the transport capacity of the entire aqueduct system, 
required to transfer the resource from zones where water is available to those where it is lacking, was 
made possible by the cooperation between the specialist skills of the (cid:862)on site(cid:863) operators and those of the 
remote control system, which were able to create the necessary configurations and optimize them centrally 
and mainly remotely. In the Apennines area near Bologna, on the other hand, the interconnection with the 
Modena system, the construction of two new pumping plants in the municipality of Guiglia and in particular 
the construction of a new storage and pumping plant in the Monte Severo (Monte San Pietro, BO) area, 
85 
 