Case study 
Transition towards a circular economy 
European circular economy package: Hera leads the way in the municipal waste management 
While in Italy the transposition of the European Directives included in the (cid:862)circular economy package(cid:863) is 
underway, Hera once again leads the way for packaging recycling and landfill reduction, confirming that it is 
ahead of both European targets regarding municipal waste.  
In the Group(cid:859)s service area, the targets for landfill use have already been achieved (4.5% at the end of 2018 
compared to the 2035 objective of not over 10%) while we are on track to reach the target for recycling of 
packaging (70% in 2017 compared to a target of 65% by 2025 and 70% by 2030). The service area is also on 
track to reach the overall target recycling rate (48% at the end of 2017 compared to the 2025 objective of 
55%, 60% by 2030 and 65% by 2035). The data for these last two targets will be updated to 2018 in the 
coming months and as usual published in the (cid:862)Tracking Waste(cid:863) report. 
Projects and collaborations with national and international networks for the circular economy 
In October 2017, the Hera Group was the second Italian company to join the Ellen MacArthur Foundation(cid:859)s 
prestigious international CE100 programme and immediately started a close collaboration relationship to 
implement the projects carried out to create shared value through activities inspired by the circular 
economy principles. In addition to large groups concentrated mainly in Europe, the United States and South 
America, the programme also includes institutions, universities, small and medium-sized enterprises, with 
the aim of promoting awareness of these issues, the exchange of experience, the launching of partnership 
projects  and  collaborations  in  the  field  of  research  and  development.  Through  the  Ellen  MacArthur 
Foundation, the Group has the opportunity to increase the exchange of ideas with other members of the 
CE100 programme, to increase the creation of shared value and contribute to long-term sustainable 
development. 
The main initiatives carried out in 2018 include: 
•  participation in the (cid:862)New Plastics Economy Global Commitment(cid:863), to make the plastic supply chain 
more circular, to which this section of the Sustainability Report is dedicated; 
•  participation in the (cid:862)Water White Paper(cid:863) on the circularity of the use of water resources, a 
collaborative project of the Foundation coordinated by ARUP. Hera contributed to the definition of 
the theoretical framework described in the paper and presented some case studies, including the 
reuse of water from the IDAR purifier in Bologna (described in this Report) and the analysis report 
of water consumption (in the (cid:862)we will(cid:863) section of this Report). The case studies will be included in a 
collection being prepared. The white paper can be downloaded from the Completed Co. projects 
section of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation website; 
•  participation in the systemic initiative (cid:862)Cities and Circular Economy for Food(cid:863), which analyses the 
circularity  of  the  food  supply  chain  in  cities,  from  production,  to  waste  prevention,  to  the 
enhancement of organic waste. Hera has contributed by presenting some case studies, in particular 
the biorefinery of Sant(cid:859)Agata Bolognese and the application of quantity-based tariff in Ferrara, 
which has significantly increased the organic fraction collected. The city of Ferrara was mentioned 
in the report, which can be downloaded from the Foundation(cid:858)s website; 
•  the launch of a pitch at the 2018 Lisbon acceleration workshop on the circular economy in cities. 
The aim is to involve other cities and companies in the network and to explore the subject from a 
theoretical point of view with the Foundation, presenting Hera(cid:859)s innovation activities in the field. 
Hera is also among the promoters of the Circular Economy Network, a project promoted by the Sustainable 
Development Foundation and by a group of companies and associations involved in the transition to a 
circular economy. The significant events of 2018 include the thematic session at Ecomondo (cid:862)The new 
European directives on waste and circular economy: indications for transposition(cid:863) (6 November) and the 
94 
 