conference held on 22 November at the Senate, in which the report on (cid:862)Potential and obstacles for the 
circular economy in Italy(cid:863) was presented and the best start-ups carrying out activities in the circular 
economy were awarded.  
Moreover,  since  its  foundation,  Hera  has  been  part  of  ICESP  (Italian  Circular  Economy  Stakeholder 
Platform), the Italian platform coordinated by ENEA that groups the main national players in the circular 
economy. ICESP is the only organization that represents Italy in the similar European platform ECESP 
(European Circular Economy Stakeholder Platform). 
Ambitious targets to make the plastic supply chain more circular 
Hera is one of the 250 companies worldwide, the only Italian multi-utility company that has signed the 
(cid:862)New Plastics Economy Global Commitment(cid:863) of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, in collaboration with UN 
Environment, the United Nations Environment Programme. The Foundation(cid:859)s initiative has the ultimate aim 
of tackling the problem of plastic pollution at the source and making the entire supply chain more circular: 
eliminating disposable products as much as possible, producing and using only recyclable, reusable or 
compostable packaging and promoting the use of recycled plastic. For this reason, the Foundation has 
created  a  global  movement,  involving  all  players  in  the  supply  chain,  such  as  plastic  packaging 
manufacturers and companies that use them to pack their products, large retailers, recycling companies, 
but also governments and investors.  
Hera Group is committed to: 
▪  increase by 2025 the amount of plastic collected in the municipalities served, by 30%;  
▪  increase by 50% the amount of plastic sorted and recycled by the Group’s plants; 
▪  increasing the plastic recycled by Aliplast by 70%.  
Ambitious commitments, which are in the wake of a path started in 2016 with the acquisition of the Aliplast 
Group, leader in Italy in the recycling of plastic. The same targets were presented by Hera in the context of 
the (cid:862)EU-wide pledging campaign for the uptake of recycled plastics(cid:863), the campaign promoted by the 
European Commission to accelerate the diffusion of recycled plastics and achieve the European target of 10 
million tonnes of recycled plastic used for new products by 2025. 
Achieving these targets will be possible only by continuing the efforts on the innovation front and by 
leveraging the Group(cid:859)s industrial capacity, but also requires the fundamental contribution of citizens, in the 
framework of a logic geared towards- also on this front - encouraging reuse and recycling, thus extending 
as much as possible the average life of products and plastic materials. 
A new waste tariff for 13% of the residents served by Hera in Emilia-Romagna  
During 2018, Hera managed the first year of application of large-scale quantity-based tariff, overcoming the 
experimental phase and entering the (cid:862)fully operational(cid:863) phase, thanks to an integrated management of 
systems and processes that has allowed its effective and uniform application in all its aspects and phases, 
from customer management to the measurement of non-separate waste disposed of, and up to final 
invoicing. The new system is a fairer and more transparent way to finance waste management services and 
allows for the promotion of virtuous behaviour and participation in separate waste collection.  
In particular, quantity-based tariff was applied for the first year in six municipalities of the area - Ferrara, 
Castelfranco Emilia, San Cesario sul Panaro, Bomporto, Bastiglia and Monte San Pietro - while in two 
municipalities, Budrio and San Giovanni in Marignano, quantity-based tariff was applied respectively for 
the third and second consecutive year. In all the municipalities activated in 2018, the quantity-based tariff 
was calibrated according to the needs and characteristics of the area, combining roadside bins equipped 
with  disposal  measurement,  volume  limiter  on  non-separate  waste,  containers  equipped  with  user 
recognition system and door-to-door collection service. In the municipalities of Castelfranco Emilia, San 
Cesario  sul  Panaro,  Bastiglia  and  Bomporto,  the  quantity-based  tariff  has  been  applied  uniformly 
throughout the area, also thanks to a special joint control room that has enabled an effective and organic 
relationship between Hera and the Administrations involved. Invoicing for 2018 was calibrated on four 
95 
 