quarterly instalments of advance payment for Ferrara and three quarterly instalments for the other 
municipalities, with an annual balance to be issued in 2019.  
 
In Ferrara, quantity-based tariff took into account the complexity and needs of a large capital city. In 2018, 
communication initiatives continued to inform and involve citizens on the new collection and invoicing 
system, in particular, information on the new bill was published in newspapers and the Facebook page 
dedicated to (cid:862)Assistance with separate collection(cid:863) was set up. During the year, for the first time in a 
municipality using quantity-based tariff, the delivery of equipment was done directly at the Hera customer 
desk in Via Cesare Diana, to making the relationship with our customer direct and effective in all its phases.  
During the year, Hera also undertook all the preparatory activities for the transition to quantity-based 
tariff, from 1 January 2019, in the municipalities of Marano sul Panaro, Spilamberto and Vignola (province 
of Modena), Dozza and Mordano (province of Bologna) and Coriano, Cattolica and Misano Adriatico 
(province of Rimini). The new tariff system will thus reach about 320,000 inhabitants in 2019, equal to 13% 
of the residents of Emilia-Romagna served by the Hera Group through the integrated management of 
municipal waste. 
For these municipalities, the new quantity-based collection services have been activated and personal 
equipment for disposal has been distributed to all citizens and companies. For an effective and consistent 
introduction of the new tariff model and the new services, special control rooms have been set up jointly 
between Hera and the municipal administrations.  
The necessary communication initiatives have also been taken to inform and involve users on how to 
introduce the new system. Notable communication initiatives implemented include: 
•  articles and press releases for the communication of first results; 
•  information meetings open to citizens and dedicated meetings for trade associations; 
•  setting up of additional information points to support citizens and distribution of information 
materials; 
•  sending home letters to explain the introduction of the quantity-based tariff to domestic and non-
domestic users; 
•  systematic  updating  of  the  customer  website/web  with  dedicated  information  for  each 
municipality. 
In the municipalities where the quantity-based tariff was applied in 2018, excellent results were achieved 
in terms of separate collection, exceeding 80%. This result is particularly significant for the municipality of 
Ferrara considering the size and complexity of the area concerned.  
In the municipalities that will switch in 2019, the introduction of the new collection services has already led 
to significant increases in separate collection in 2018, albeit to a different extent due to the different timing 
of the start of services. The results of Dozza, Mordano, Spilamberto, Coriano and Misano are particularly 
noteworthy, where the percentage of separate waste exceeded 80% with significant increases compared to 
2017. In all municipalities, however, there was a marked increase in the percentage of separate collection. 
In the coming years, further municipalities served by Hera will gradually transition to quantity-based tariff 
(an additional 50 thousand residents will switch in January 2020), increasing the services for measuring 
non-separate waste and the application of the tariff according to the Group model, always in accordance 
with the provisions and guidelines defined by regulatory bodies. 
Circular economy and separate waste collection: thanks to the commitment of Hera and residents, 93% of 
the separate waste collection was actually recovered in 2017 
For the ninth consecutive year Hera published the (cid:862)Tracking Waste(cid:863) report, which transparently and 
completely certifies that the percentage of separate waste collection actually recovered by the company 
reached 93% in 2017, divided into 90% of material recycling and 10% of energy recovery that is obtained 
96 
 