Lastly, the analyses on the quality of the plastic and cardboard of the large underground drop-off points, 
recently converted, show compliance values of more than 95%. 
With Riciclandino we help the environment and schools 
Riciclandino is a project that engages children and families in an environmental initiative that involves the 
part  of  a  town(cid:859)s  residents  that  gravitate  around  school  matters,  in  its  role  as  an  institution  and  a 
community of people. Under the project, the more separate waste collection is done, and the more waste 
is sent to drop-off points, the more points are obtained, giving the local school the opportunity to receive 
financial incentives. Families of students can use their Riciclandino Card to dispose of waste at drop-off 
points, obtaining a discount on their own bill, as per municipal regulations, and providing a matching 
incentive to their child(cid:859)s school. The added value of the initiative is raising environmental awareness and 
sharing actions that create and strengthen the civic and social sense of the community. 
In 2018, the project, which started in the 2010-2011 school year in Ravenna, involved 18 municipalities in 
the Ravenna area, and 22 municipalities in the Modena area, and Ferrara, for a total of 41 municipalities. It 
involved 392 schools and 74,600 students in the 2017-2018 school year. The participating schools were 
awarded prizes for their work, amounting to over Euro 103,400. In the framework of the project, over 1,437 
tonnes of waste were taken to drop-off points by children and their families. 
CiboAmico: 91,000 meals recovered in Hera’s canteens since the beginning of the project 
Launched in 2009 with the support of Last Minute Market, a company of the University of Bologna that 
promotes environmental sustainability and the fight against waste, CiboAmico is a concrete action taken by 
our company to promote the development of the circular economy, linking different businesses of the area 
for a shared social responsibility, addressing a concrete help to the most needy. Currently there are 5 
company canteens involved: Bologna, Granarolo dell(cid:859)Emilia, Imola, Rimini and Ferrara The recovered meals 
are donated to non-profit organizations in the area that provide hospitality and daily care for people in 
need.  
In 2018 alone, about 11,000 meals were recovered in favour of 5 local non-profit organizations that assist 
over 110 people daily, corresponding to about 5 tonnes of food for an economic value of over Euro 47,000. 
This also avoided the production of 4.8 tonnes of waste, corresponding to the capacity of more than 10 bins 
and the emission of almost 21 tonnes of CO  into the environment. In addition, the waste of water, energy 
2
and land consumption that was necessary to pack those meals was avoided.  
After 10 years from the start of the project around over 91,000 meals were donated overall for an overall 
economic value of about Euro 375,000. This avoided the production of 39 tonnes of waste (corresponding 
to about 86 bins) and the emission of almost 170 tonnes of CO . 
2
There are many partners of non-profit organizations in the area involved to ensure increasingly important 
results such as: Fraternità Opera di Padre Marella (OPM) and Associazione Arca in the Bologna area, 
Associazione Papa Giovanni XXIII (APG23) in Imola and Rimini and Associazione Viale K di Ferrara. In 
addition, there are many partner structures of the initiative where the consumption of recovered meals 
takes place: Pronto Soccorso Sociale of Bologna, Comunità Terapeutica of Cadriano, Comunità L(cid:859)Arcobaleno 
of Quarto Inferiore, Pronta accoglienza adulti of Imola, Capanna of Betlemme di Rimini, Casa delle Donne, 
Casa Mambro and Mensa of via Gaetano Pesci in Ferrara. 
 
At the end of 2017, Ciboamico also went beyond the confines of the company canteens to involve a city 
market. The initiative, created on the basis of a proposal of HeraLab Modena, is carried out with Consorzio 
del Mercato Albinelli and the collaboration of the Municipality of Modena and the non-profit organizations 
Porta Aperta and CEIS Group. While in the canteens the objective was the recovery of unconsumed meals, 
the collaboration between Hera and the Albinelli traders aims to avoid the waste of the fresh products that, 
at the end of the day, can be left over on the market stalls: food that is still perfectly edible but that, for 
various reasons, the next day could no longer be sold. Food recoveries from individual retailers takes place 
every Wednesday and Friday when the Mercato Albinelli is open, it is mainly bread and baked goods, and 
98 
 