Change the Ending is an ongoing success: 820 tonnes of bulky waste collected in 2018 
The project, now in its fifth year of activity, makes it possible to intercept all objects in good condition 
otherwise to be disposed of as bulky waste and allow their reuse, thanks to a network of non-profit 
organizations spread throughout the area, giving a new life to the goods donated by citizens. The project is 
linked to the specific memorandum of understanding between Atersir and Hera on the management of 
bulky waste, developed in collaboration with Last Minute Market. The goods can be donated by residents 
to a circuit of non-profit organizations in Emilia-Romagna that collect bulky goods at their headquarters or 
door-to-door, using them for second-hand markets, using them in their offices or donating them to people 
in need. The collection of goods carried out by non-profit organizations is promoted through all of Hera 
Group(cid:859)s communication tools, in particular through call centre operators, who offer users the possibility of 
donating bulky objects in good condition if they intend to dispose of them.  
The initiative promotes good habits related to reuse and generates positive social effects thanks to the 
activities  of  the  charitable  associations  involved,  in  line  with  Hera  Group(cid:859)s  social  responsibility  and 
environmental protection principles. It also responds to current developments in environmental legislation, 
which aim to establish a management model based on the concepts of prevention and reuse.  
At the end of 2018, 17 participating non-profit organizations were distributed throughout the Emilia-
Romagna region served by Hera, ensuring coverage of all its main cities. In 2018, the associations received 
over 7,400 phone calls from residents willing to donate bulky goods and performed over 5,800 collections, 
for a total of about 188,000 items and about 820 tonnes collected, confirming results in line with the 
previous year despite the lack of contribution of the non-profit organisations of the Forlì area (due to the 
transition  of  the  municipality  to  in-house  management).  The  majority  of  the  goods  donated  were 
dispatched to be reused, with an average percentage close to 70%: from January to December 2018 the 
project as a whole therefore made it possible to avoid a total of about 577 tonnes of bulky waste, achieving 
a result in line with the previous year with great savings to the benefit of the environment and lower 
charges for waste collection. 
Recovery of used vegetable oils  
During 2018, Hera Spa relaunched the project for the collection of vegetable oils, generating a virtuous case 
of (cid:862)circular economy(cid:863). In fact, through an experimental framework agreement signed in November 2018 
with Eni, all spent vegetable oil collected by Hera, once processed in affiliated plants, will be transported to 
Eni(cid:859)s Bio-refinery in Porto Marghera (Venice) where it will be transformed into biodiesel. These 500,000 
litres of diesel fuel will be used to power part of the compactors used for waste collection in the province of 
Modena. To further strengthen this collection service, during 2018 another 300 road containers were put 
into service, bringing the total number of containers in the area to 700, distributed over more than 100 
municipalities for a population served of around 2.3 million inhabitants. The total collection of vegetable oil 
in 2018 amounts to 850 tonnes, of which about 400 from the collection centres and 450 from the road 
containers, but in 2019 the total collection will exceed 1000 tonnes, and be sent to Eni(cid:859)s bio-refinery. 
Recycled plastic to be used for the pipes of future network services 
The Hera Group, thanks also to the expertise of its subsidiary Aliplast, the Italian leader in plastic treatment 
and recycling, is the first company in Italy to start an important experiment to use recycled, traced-origin 
plastic to build polyethylene pipelines. The first construction site, where the laying of the pipes has just 
been completed, concerns a total of one kilometre of electricity grid, partly in the area of Modena and 
partly in that of Imola. The second construction site, which will start in January, will involve two kilometres 
of sewage network in the municipality of Bellaria-Igea Marina (RN), thus bringing further added value to the 
plan to safeguard Rimini(cid:859)s bathing area, the largest sewage restoration project ever carried out in Italy. For 
the development of pre-production and for laboratory tests, Hera has made use of the expertise of 
Idrotherm 2000, Italian excellence in the construction of pipes for network services: this has allowed Hera 
to obtain a multilayer polyethylene pipe with low environmental impact, at least 70% of which comes from 
100 
 