SUSTAINABILITY REPORT - SOL GROUP 9
ABOUT US Founded in Italy in 1927, the SOL Group operates in the sectors of the production, applied 
research and marketing of technical and medical gases, home care services, biotech-
nology and energy production from renewable sources.
— It is present in 29 countries with 4,320 employees and serves over 50,000 industrial cus-
tomers, 500 major medical customers and 500,000 patients. In 2019, its net sales came to 
904.3 million Euro.
Parent company SOL Spa has been listed on the Borsa Italiana since July 1998.
 In the industrial sector, SOL Group supplies technical  In the Homecare sector, the Group, which operates 
gases (compressed, liquefied and cryogenic), equipment,  through Vivisol, that succeeded into being one of the 
systems and services to customers operating in most  leading Homecare Provider throughout Europe and beyond, 
industrial sectors: steel, metallurgy, glass and ceramics,  provides benefits and therapies to chronic patients who are 
metal fabrication, chemistry and pharmaceuticals, food  being treated, on behalf of National Health Services, outside 
and beverage industry, oil industry and services for the  a protected environment such as the hospital. Vivisol is able 
environment and transport of goods and people. to take complete care of chronic patients who frequently 
are afflicted also by disabling diseases and conditions of 
In the healthcare sector, SOL Group supports hospitals  social fragility, and need life support therapies and cures to 
(public and private), Scientific Hospitals and Care  be maintained in their social and emotional context, thus 
Institutions, University Hospitals, Clinical Research Centres,  improving their living conditions and therapeutic adherence. 
Medically Assisted Procreation Centres, nursing homes and  Vivisol provides home therapies in the respiratory field, such 
assisted-living centres, providing medical gases, medical  as oxygen therapy, mechanical ventilation invasive and non-
devices for the administration and dosing of medical gases,  invasive, the treatment and diagnosis of respiratory sleep 
equipment, gas distribution systems, plant management  disorders; in the infusion field, with enteral and parenteral 
services, electro-medical equipment, sterilisation plants  artificial nutrition therapies and home dialysis; telemedicine 
and the turnkey construction of cryobiological rooms and  and telemonitoring services, highly complex medical and 
laboratories. nursing services including palliative care and the provision 
of aids.
In the biotechnology sector, SOL Group works on the  In the production of energy from renewable sources, 
research and development of tests and analytical services  SOL Group has built 16 hydroelectric plants in Albania, 
in the field of human and animal research and clinical  Bosnia and Herzegovina, North Macedonia and Slovenia 
diagnosis, research and development of biotechnological  since 2002.
molecules, genomic and molecular genetic diagnostics, 
development of bioinformatic pipelines for the 
management of clinical data, development of tests and 
analytical services in the food, environmental and industrial 
fields.