SUSTAINABILITY REPORT - SOL GROUP 11
MISSION AND 
VALUES
—
The SOL Group seeks to provide its customers with inno-
vative and technologically advanced solutions at all 
times and to offer patients the best possible home care 
services, contributing to improving the quality of life on 
the planet.
The values in which the SOL Group believes and from which 
it takes daily inspiration are:
Ethical behaviour: in interpersonal relations, towards em-
ployees, customers, suppliers and all stakeholders.
Safety: we consider the workplace safety of all employees 
and collaborators, as well as the safety of the products and 
services we provide to our customers and patients, as a top 
priority.
Customer satisfaction: we are committed to providing our 
customers with innovative and technologically advanced 
solutions at all times and to improving the quality of life of 
our patients, guaranteeing them the best treatment and 
the finest home care.
Balanced development: we strive to create balanced eco-
nomic growth and constant development over the long 
term, employing resources efficiently and orienting them 
constantly towards change.
Environmental protection: we seek to safeguard the envi- and those interested in pursuing its mission. It expresses 
ronment by optimising processes, and therefore using en- the commitments and responsibilities that all SOL employ-
ergy resources in the best possible way, and by developing  ees assume in conducting any business activity. Particular 
technologies and services that help our customers improve  attention is devoted to the protection of occupational 
their environmental efficiency. health and safety, the prevention and fight against cor-
ruption, as well as the protection of the environment and 
Development of human resources: we believe that at- respect for human rights.
tracting and retaining new talents and, in a broader sense, 
training and developing the capacities of individuals are  The Code was reviewed in 2017 with the aim of further 
fundamental tools for the success of the SOL Group. highlighting the principles and conduct that must charac-
terise relationships with all stakeholders. A clear and simple 
The SOL Group adopted its own Code of Ethics in 2006,  style was adopted to make sure that the contents are im-
which is a tool for the implementation of good behavioural  mediately comprehensible. 
practices, a landmark and a guide for those working at SOL 