12 OUR IDENTITY
A PAST IN CONSTANT EVOLUTION
—
1927 1960 
Giovanni Annoni and Aldo Fumagalli founded  Alessandro and Renzo Annoni, Giulio and Ugo Fumagalli Romario, the second 
the SOL Group with the first two plants for the  generation, launched an ambitious project for the innovative development 
production of oxygen and acetylene in Livorno  of SOL: these were the years of the first technical gas production plants, located 
and Ancona. close to the Group’s major key customers, such as steelworks and glass-makers.
1970
SOL became a leading operator in the sector in Italy 
thanks to the transition from a regional market strategy 
to a national one. This was made possible by embracing 
the major transformations taking place in the technical 
gas industry at the time due to the development of 
technologies for the storage and distribution of gases in 
cryogenic liquid state. 
1984 1986
The Group also began to grow in  SOL was one of the first companies 
Europe, developing plants, branches  in Europe to introduce a new form of 
and joint ventures in most European  treatment, developed in the US, for 
countries over the years, also seizing  patients affected by serious respiratory 
opportunities stemming from the  disorders. This treatment involves 
opening of new markets in South- significant quantities of oxygen and a 
Eastern Europe. highly specialist home care service. In 
1986 Vivisol was established, a company 
dedicated to developing this market.
1998 2002
In order to be more competitive on the international markets, the  The Group entered the renewable hydroelectric energy 
parent company SOL Spa was listed on the Milan Stock Exchange.  production sector, acquiring and developing hydroelectric 
The arrival of the third generation of the Annoni and Fumagalli  power plants in Slovenia, Bosnia Herzegovina, Albania 
Romario families at the helm of the company, together with a  and Macedonia for an overall installed capacity today of 
young executive management team from outside the families,  around 31 MW.
allowed the Group to pursue its strategy of internationalisation.