SUSTAINABILITY REPORT - SOL GROUP 13
2010 2012
The SOL Group expanded its borders  SOL entered Turkey with a joint venture in the home care sector and the constitution of 
beyond Europe, founding the joint  a company dedicated to the development of industrial activities. 
venture SicgilSOL in India in 2010. 
Taking advantage of the experience 
it had acquired in the creation and  2014
management of cryobanks for the 
storage of biological samples, in 2010 
the Group entered the biotechnology  With the acquisition of the German company SKS, SOL became one of the most 
sector. important players in the market for CO production in Germany.
2
2015
SOL entered the Moroccan market with the acquisition of 
a 100% stake in Flosit, and the Brazilian market through a 
joint venture with a local entrepreneur.
Capo d'Orlando station was built in Italy for the supply of 
hydrogen vehicles, produced solely thanks to photovoltaic 
panels. 
2017 2018
SOL expanded its activities in the  The Group acquired two companies in Poland specialising in palliative 
biotechnology sector by acquiring Personal  care, Pallmed and Medseven. In addition, it established a Centre for 
Genomics, a Verona-based company  the testing and maintenance of cylinders and packs with the aim of 
specialised in DNA sequencing and genetic  increasing container quality to further guarantee the health and safety of 
data interpreting services. patients, clients and production personnel.
The Group continued along the path of  A plant for the recovery and production of carbon dioxide was built 
promoting more sustainable mobility, entering  in Bulgaria at a factory that produces Bioethanol, contributing to the 
the Liquefied Natural Gas market. reduction of emissions of this gas into the atmosphere.
2019
The Group strengthened its international 
presence in the home care sector: in 
Brazil, by acquiring the majority of P 
Par Partecipacoes, heading Global Care 
Assistencia Domiciliar, Unit Care Servicos 
Medicos and DN Global Homecare, in 
Germany with Intensivservice Wanninger 
and in Switzerland with Spitex Perspecta.