SUSTAINABILITY REPORT - SOL GROUP 15
SUSTAINABILITY, 
A GLOBAL GOAL
—
In September 2015 the United Nations defined 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to be achieved 
by 2030, which represent common sustainable development goals and constitute an important reference for 
the international community.
Achieving them cannot be without the commitment of institutions, civil society, non-governmental organi-
sations (NGOs) and businesses.
Aware of its role in sustainable development, the SOL Group has connected its activities to the UN Agenda 
with the aim of highlighting its contribution to achieving 7 of the 17 goals.
SUSTAINABILITY FOR EMPLOYEES
For employees, the SOL Group has always invested in improving the well-being of people to foster 
involvement, a connection with the company and to create a collaboration-oriented climate. Principles 
such as meritocracy, respect for equal opportunities, listening to employees' needs, health and 
safety protection are considered essential, in accordance with the responsibility that the Group assumes 
for maintaining a serene and favourable working environment. 
SUSTAINABILITY FOR THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Technological innovations and high-quality products are the basis of the offer for industrial customers, 
ensuring safer, cheaper and environmentally friendly performance.
Improving water quality: the use of oxygen in wastewater treatment makes the purification process 
more effective, reducing environmental impact and ensuring better control over the treatment.
Disinfection with ozone protects the watercourses where wastewater is re-emitted after treatment from 
bacterial pollution and also avoids the use of chlorine compounds.
Reduction of energy consumption and emissions: SOL designs and manufactures different types of 
oxy-fuel combustion burners for the metal and glass industry which, compared to the use of air alone, 
guarantee greater efficiency and a consequent reduction in energy consumption and emissions into the 
atmosphere.
On-site plants: producing gas directly on industrial customer premises using on-site plants, where the 
characteristics of the gas and the needs of the customer allow it, resulting in a lower environmental 
impact. In fact, atmospheric pollution caused by road transport is avoided and energy consumption 
is reduced since the process, specialising in just a single gas with specific characteristics, consumes less 
energy than a traditional centralised plant.