16 OUR IDENTITY
Promoting more sustainable mobility: every year resources and energy are invested to support the 
development and use of fuels with a lower environmental impact, such as hydrogen and Liquefied 
Natural Gas, with the aim of reducing emissions.
Increase in safety: the nitrogen produced by SOL is often used to render inert environments and 
systems that could be at risk of explosion or fire, safeguarding the safety of workers.
Reduction of food waste: thanks to food freezing systems and storage systems in protective 
atmospheres without preservatives, SOL contributes to the reduction of food waste and of substances 
harmful to human health. 
SUSTAINABILITY FOR HEALTHCARE
The SOL Group constantly seeks to give a better contribution to the challenges and needs posed within 
the healthcare sector, both by hospitals and by patients who use home care services.
That’s why SOL believes that hospitals must not only be supplied with traditional medicinal gases 
(oxygen and nitrous oxide), but also with new and specialised medicines such as Neophyr, a medicinal 
gas produced in the Monza pharmaceutical workshop and used in intensive care, the active ingredient of 
which is nitrous oxide. The SOL Group also provides systems for their use and, above all, services – such as 
sanitation - that allow the customer and doctors to focus on the main purpose of their activity: patient 
care.
The safety of patients, operators and all figures present in healthcare facilities is a primary objective. 
The experience gained and continuous feedback allows SOL to innovate products and services for the 
purpose, among others, of making them inherently safer: examples are the integrated reducing valves 
for compressed gas packages, safety and protective devices for handling cryogenic gases and safety and 
monitoring sensors for the rapid analysis of hazardous atmospheres.
The reduction of the Group’s environmental impact is pursued through transportation efficiency, the 
computerisation of accounting and reporting documents and optimising inventory thanks to the 
use of management systems that monitor tank levels and track the packages distributed in healthcare 
facilities.
Over the years, the SOL Group has flanked these hospital services alongside increased attention to pa-
tient treatment: the healthcare worker seeing to home oxygen delivery is not merely seeing to logistics, 
but takes on a true role as healthcare worker, taking charge of the patient’s clinical governance by 
providing targeted therapeutic hospital and home care services.
Patients with chronic conditions can therefore count on integrated care services at their home which, if 
conditions allow, guarantee as independent and high-quality a life as possible, avoiding hospitalisation 
thanks to an efficient remote monitoring service.
Lastly, there are several advantages of genomic diagnostics which the Group makes available to its 
customers:
•  Prevention: by performing tests on a healthy population, there is a higher probability of being able 
to take prompt action to prevent certain illnesses.
•  Early identification of problems: by screening new-born babies and carrying out predictive tests 
on a population that is at high risk of a specific illness it is possible to identify anomalies in advance 
and, potentially, take early action.
•  Assistance for the ill: by identifying DNA mutations it is possible to modulate personalised 
treatments to improve the effectiveness of healthcare.