18 OUR IDENTITY
INVESTING FOR CUSTOMER 
SAFETY: THE NEW SOL 
TESTING CENTRE
—
60,000 1,000 136
CYLINDERS  ANNUALLY PACKS ANNUALLY TRAINING HOUR 
PROCESS PROCESS PER EMPLOYEE
The maintenance and testing of cylinders  to  process  more  than  60,000  cylinders  Integrated and innovative control sys-
and cylinder packs are very critical phases,  and 1,000 packs annually with a single  tems,  combined  with  the  automation 
as they can have an impact on the safety  work shift. It is a centre of excellence cur- of numerous phases of the process which 
of the end user (customer) and all operators  rently able to manage cylinders and packs  reduce the manual handling of cylinders, 
who manage the production and distribu- throughout the Group. guarantee a high degree of safety of the 
tion phases of the containers, and on the  operating  processes  and  the  operators 
quality of the product contained therein  The Centre's design was guided by high  themselves. In a standard maintenance or 
(the containers are used in the industrial  standards of quality, technological inno- testing process, an operator must handle 
sectors, in the food sector, in laboratories  vation, safety and efficiency. each individual cylinder on average between 
for pure gases and for medicinal gases and  12 and 15 times. Thanks to the high degree 
medical devices). The use of gases can save  A management software (Supervisor) has  of automation of the SOL Testing Centre, 
lives and the cylinder containing them must  been implemented, to which all the ma- the processing cycle involves only 4 manual 
always ensure maximum reliability and  chines are connected throughout the pro- operations to safeguard operator safety.
safety. duction process: valve functionality check, 
automatic measurement of the physical pa- The Centre's operators participated in an in-
The new SOL Testing Centre arises from  rameters of the cylinder, internal inspection,  tense, specific training plan, which includes 
the need to internally manage the testing  sandblasting, hydraulic testing, painting. The  periodic refresher sessions. In 2019, more than 
and maintenance activities of cylinders for  system allows organising, planning pro- 1,700 hours of training were provided, equal 
compressed and liquefied gases hitherto en- duction, tracking and processing data:  to approximately 136 hours per employee.
trusted mainly to qualified external testing  each operation performed is recorded and 
centres in outsourcing. stored in a dedicated database, organised  In compliance with current legislation, the 
into digital files for individual containers to  processes have been verified and certified 
The Centre covers over 22,000 square me- allow complete traceability and historicity  by Certification Bodies specialised in the 
tres and is located in Pignataro Maggiore,  of the tests and processes performed. manufacture and periodic review of trans-
in the Campania Region (Italy). It is able  portable pressure equipment (TPED).
Pignataro Maggiore 
(Caserta)