20 OUR IDENTITY
THE GROUP'S DEVELOPMENT 
AND INVESTMENTS
—
ACQUISITIONS 
In 2019, important corporate operations were carried out in 
the home care sector.
P Par Partecipacoes Ltda was acquired in Brazil, based in 
São Paulo, a holding company that owns three Brazilian 
companies operating in the home-care sector, which are the 
Global Care Assistencia Domiciliar Ltda, the Unit Care Servi-
cos Medicos Ltda and DN Global Homecare Ltda. The Group 
also acquired Intensivservice Wanninger GmbH based in Re-
gensburg, Germany, and Spitex Perspecta based in Basel, 
Switzerland.
MAIN INVESTMENTS 
During the 2019 financial year 53 million Euro of invest-
ments were made in the technical gases area, and 50,3 
million Euro in the home care sector.
In Italy, at the San Martino Buon Albergo plant in Verona, 
work began on the construction of the new unit for the pro-
duction of liquid nitrogen and the enhancement of the total 
production of oxygen and argon from the existing plant. In 
Salerno, the new liquefied methane storage plant for the  This activity concerned in particular the primary production 
Southern Italian market is under way. units of Novara, Italy, with the installation of a new on-site 
plant, and the unit of Kavadarci in North Macedonia, as well 
In Hungary, work is being completed on the construction  as the secondary production units of Ancona and Padua in 
of the new secondary production plant in Budapest of the  Italy, Tilburg in the Netherlands, Wiener Neustadt in Austria 
subsidiary SOL Hungary. and Bucharest in Romania.
In Albania, works in the construction of a new sulphur diox- Various on-site plants were built and put into operation for 
ide production plant have been completed in Tirana. the production of nitrogen and Singas (nitrogen, hydrogen 
and carbon oxide based mixtures) both in Italy and abroad, 
In Spain, a new secondary production unit was built in Bar- and the vehicles for the transportation, distribution and sale 
celona. of products were enhanced with the acquisition of cryogenic 
tankers, cryogenic liquid tanks, cylinders, dewars and elec-
In Poland, work is under way to extend the subsidiary  tromedical devices in order to support the Group’s develop-
Pallmed's palliative care facility in Bydgoszcz. ment.
In India, the nitrous oxide production plant was successfully  Finally, the investments to improve the information systems 
commissioned at the secondary production plant in Ranipet. also continued.
The program for the improvement, modernisation and 
streamlining of the production plants has continued. 