SUSTAINABILITY REPORT - SOL GROUP 23
CORPORATE  THE INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
GOVERNANCE The internal control system is the set of principles, rules, pro-
cedures and standards aimed at monitoring and preventing 
fraud against the Company and the market as well as to pre-
vent the commission of offences reflecting an apparent in-
— terest or benefit of the company by either top management 
or, more generally, all its employees, ensuring compliance 
with laws in every area of the Company's and the Group's 
The SOL Group’s corporate governance and control system 
activities based on the principles of fairness, transparency, 
refers directly to the central role of the Board of Directors of 
efficiency and reliability of corporate management.
the parent company SOL Spa.
The system is guided by the Code of Ethics and all internal 
The system is based on the concept of balance in the rep-
regulations and procedures, which constitute, as a set, the 
resentation and roles of the governing bodies, dialogue 
integrated Quality, Safety and Environmental Management 
with stakeholders and on transparency, both in relation 
System.
to the market and to internal procedures.
Furthermore, both SOL Spa and Vivisol Srl have adopted an 
The SOL governance structure comprises the following 
Organisation, Management and Control Model estab-
bodies: Board of Directors, Shareholders’ Meeting, Board of 
lished by Italian Legislative Decree no. 231/2001 and sub-
Statutory Auditors and Independent Auditors.
sequent amendments and additions, which forms an inte-
gral part of the internal control system. The Model of SOL 
The Board of Directors has the primary role of governing and 
Spa was then also extended to Sol Gas Primari Srl, thereby 
managing the company with the basic objective of creating 
constituting a spin-off of the parent dedicated to primary 
value for shareholders, in accordance with legislation and 
production. 
the Group’s mission and values.
Both SOL Spa and Vivisol Srl have formed their own Super-
The Board of Directors assesses all of the most significant 
visory Bodies which have the necessary independence to 
projects, including those relating to sustainability perfor-
verify compliance with the Organisation, Management and 
mance.
Control Model pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree no. 
231/2001 and, more generally, respect for the Code of Eth-
The Board of Directors of the Company, at its meeting of 
ics.
20 February 2020, examined the new version of the Code 
of Conduct for listed companies promoted by Borsa Ital-
The Organisation, Management and Control Models, first 
iana that was approved on 31 January 2020 (available on 
drafted in 2006, were most recently revised at the end of 
the website www.borsaitaliana.it). With a leaner structure, 
2018, with a major revision and simplification of the text 
the new Code introduced, in particular, a greater ranking of 
that took account of the experience gained over ten years, 
recommendations in relation to both the size of the issuing 
both in the evolution of corporate organisation and consid-
company and the characteristics of its shareholders. There-
ering regulatory and jurisprudential updates. The Code of 
fore SOL Spa, which does not currently adhere to the Code 
Ethics now implemented by almost all Group companies in 
of Conduct for listed companies, has positively assessed the 
Italy and abroad was also updated and expanded in 2017.
changes and simplifications introduced and at its meeting 
of 20.2.2020 the Board of Directors resolved to adhere to 
During 2019, training sessions were organised for SOL and 
the new Code of Conduct for listed companies starting from 
Vivisol employees to ensure the dissemination of the prin-
the financial year beginning on 2021, January 1st.
ciples and behaviours defined within the Model and to il-
lustrate the main changes introduced. Further innovations 
For further information on Corporate Governance, please 
in the field of crimes falling within the category of those 
see the “Investor Relations” section of the website www.sol-
required for the purposes of Italian Legislative Decree 231 
group.com
were analysed for a future updating of the Model.