24 GOVERNANCE SYSTEM
The SOL Group is also strongly committed to protecting and  Group continued with a widespread training campaign, also 
respecting the principles of free market and competi- via distance learning, using the communication tools avail-
tion. In 2017 a specific Antitrust Compliance Program  able. An audit of the Group's privacy management system 
was adopted and the Antitrust Code and Handbook were  was carried out by an external company in 2019. The anal-
approved by the Board of Directors and disseminated, which  ysis confirmed the substantial adequacy of the SOL Privacy 
very simply and clearly explained the fundamental prin- Management System to the EU Regulation and identified 
ciples of the legislation to be observed. These documents  those areas of improvement that will be implemented dur-
have been translated into English, distributed to all Group  ing 2020. 
companies and been the subject of specific training sessions 
dedicated to all recipients of the Program. The systematic monitoring of the correct application of the 
corporate governance principles takes place via a system 
An Antitrust Function was also created, which is cov- that involves the presence of dedicated company structures 
ered by the Legal Affairs Department for Italy and by the  which carry out monitoring, control and risk management 
Country Managers for the Group’s non-Italian companies.  activities of company risks.
It is responsible for monitoring the implementation of the 
Antitrust program and providing assistance in this area to  The Board of Directors of parent company SOL Spa has 
everyone in the Group. Among its other duties, the Anti- created the Internal Control Function that responds to 
trust Function also organises training events to promote the  it, which is tasked with ensuring that internal operating and 
awareness and understanding of the regulation’s contents. administrative procedures are correctly respected. The Inter-
nal Control Function reports directly to the Board of Direc-
During 2018, also in light of the entry of the European Direc- tors. Verification activities are performed both at the man-
tive on the general data protection (the so-called “GDPR”)  agement offices of the Monza headquarters and at the sites 
into force, a DPO (Data Protection Officer) was appointed  of the Group’s operating companies. The internal control 
in the countries where required by law and a Directive was  function makes use of the structures and personnel included 
published, valid at Group level, which defines the basic rules  in the various Departments, assigning them with control and 
that all Group companies must know for the collection, pro- risk assessment tasks.
cessing and management of personal data. After this, the 
GOVERNANCE OF SUSTAINABILITY
—
Sustainability has been central to the SOL Group's strategy  committee of the ConsumerLab.it association for its clarity 
since its establishment. The approach adopted by the Group  and communicative effectiveness that demonstrates SOL's 
integrates sustainability into the planning and control sys- sensitivity and attention in involving stakeholders in sustain-
tems and therefore into the management of the functions  able matters. 
related to the economic activities managed.
On 28 November 2016 the Corporate Social Responsi-
bility (CSR) Committee was set up with Directors, General  MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
managers and Central managers appointed as its members. 
The CSR Committee validates the sustainability goals, coor- The SOL Group has chosen to organise its Quality, Safety 
dinates, and stimulates the operating structures of all of the  and Environmental Management System in an integrated 
Group’s companies. way in order to guarantee coverage of all its activities, em-
phasising synergies.
For 11 years now, the SOL Group has chosen to communi-
cate its economic, environmental and social performance  The governance of the Management systems, the re-exam-
with  the  Sustainability  Report.  The  2018  Sustainability  ination of their proper functioning and the verification of 
Report was chosen from 800 reports and awarded by the  their effectiveness is entrusted to the Quality, Safety and 