SUSTAINABILITY REPORT - SOL GROUP 25
Environmental  Management  System  Steering  Com- must obtain the CE marking, which proves that its product com-
mittee (CGSQ) made up of the Executive Directors, General  plies with the safety and health requirements laid down in the 
Managers and Central Directors. legislation in force. CE markings (for Class 2 and 3 devices, which 
are those prevalent in the Group) are issued by Notified Bodies, 
The Central Quality, Safety and Environmental Regula- facilities (laboratories or companies) authorised by the compe-
tory Affairs Management (DIQS) instead deals with the  tent authorities of the European Union countries.
operational aspect of the management systems, reporting 
annually to the CGSQ. The DARF is also responsible for managing all post-marketing 
activities. Once a medicinal product or medical device has been 
The DIQS presents the progress of the projects and activities  placed on the market, the manufacturer must regularly monitor 
to the Executive Directors and Central Directors on a quar- any adverse effects or lack of efficacy of the products concerned 
terly basis. (pharmaco-vigilance for medicinal products and material-vigi-
lance for medical devices). The company procedures establish 
Policies are documents at the foundation of the Manage- that each Group company sends specific reports to DARF for the 
ment system and are signed by the Chairman and General  collection of reports, for analyses and for the evaluation of any 
Managers of the Group. These set out the principles underly- notification to the competent authority. 
ing the work of the Group’s companies and define the objec-
tives that Management intends to pursue in the various are-
as. The SOL Group has recently introduced a new corporate  MEDICAL GASES:
governance tool, Directives. These documents are issued at 
Marketing Authorisations in 
corporate level and are obligatorily received by all the Group 
23
companies.  European countries;
56 14
 production workshops in   countries 
THE REGULATORY AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT
MEDICAL DEVICES:
Oxygen, medicinal air and nitrous oxide, Donopa (a mixture  DM gases produced in 
of oxygen and nitrous oxide) and Neophyr (whose active sub- 16 15
 units and distributed in   countries.
stance is nitrogen monoxide) are the main drugs that the 
Group distributes in the healthcare sector in hospitals and,  5
 Group companies are manufacturers 
with regard to oxygen, in patients' homes. Also in the health-
(i.e. holders of CE markings) for medical gas 
care sector, the Group produces and markets gas for medi-
distribution plants or equipment.
cal devices, such as liquid nitrogen for cryopreservation and 
cryotherapy and carbon dioxide for laparoscopy, and medi-
cal equipment and systems that are used in medicine for 
diagnostic and therapeutic purposes (from oxygen distribu- RESPONSIBLE CARE
tion systems in hospitals to home mechanical fans).
SOL Spa has subscribed to Responsible Care in Italy since 
Within the DIQS Department, the Regulatory and Pharma- 1995, the voluntary program of the world’s chemical industry, 
ceutical Affairs Department (DARF) serves to support, con- supported in Italy by Federchimica, in which it plays an active 
trol and coordinate all SOL Group companies in the authori- part with its own representative on the Managing Committee.
sation process for the production, distribution and marketing 
of gases for medicinal use and medical devices.  On 7 January 2015, SOL also adhered to the “Responsible 
Care Global Charter”, committing itself to promoting the 
Drugs and medical devices are subject to strict controls and  principles and contents of the initiative in all countries where 
the documentation necessary for the authorisation process  the Group is present. 
is increasingly complex. The pharmaceutical workshops 
which produce the drugs must be authorised by the Drug  On 23 April 2015 the subsidiary Flosit also subscribed to the 
Agencies, bodies that verify that all phases of the produc- program, promoted in Morocco by the “Fédération de la 
tion process follow GMP (Good Manufacturing Practices) at  Chimie et de la Parachimie”.
national level. Compliance with these guidelines guarantees 
the quality of medicinal products, which in turn is a funda- The implementation of the “Responsible Care” Program at SOL 
mental prerequisite for the medicinal product to be defined  Spa is checked every two years by a certification body.
as safe and effective. The manufacturer of a medical device 