26 GOVERNANCE SYSTEM
RISK ANALYSIS Furthermore the Company Managers, supported by any 
local or corporate designated functions, also oversee the 
SOL Group’s activities, products, services and supply chain,  risks related to employees’ management and the issues 
as well as its commercial relations, are exposed to social and  covered by the Code of Ethics. The Code of Ethics, which 
environmental risks. includes issues such as protecting the safety, health and 
environment, respect for human rights and preventing and 
SOL Group adopts a risk mapping and assessment meth- combating corruption, applies to all those who come into 
odology that assigns a relevance score to each risk according  contact with the Group, including suppliers, partners and 
to the impact assessment, the probability of occurrence and  customers.
the management system in place. The analysis of the con-
text in which SOL Group operates, including the expectations  The Group has activated processes and management sys-
of the Group’s main stakeholders, was a fundamental part  tems in order to mitigate the most relevant risks, in order 
of the process.  to guarantee the correct control of the matters. In particular, 
the Group’s units have obtained certifications such as ISO 
The main risks regarding non-financial matters to which the  9001, OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001, ISO 14001, ISO 50001, 
Group is exposed are the following:  ISO 13485, ISO 27001 and ISO 22000. Thanks to the new 
requirements introduced by the standards ISO 9001 and 
Environmental matters: potential risks related to the elec- ISO 14001, a new risk analysis process was implemented in 
tricity consumption of the Group’s primary transformation  relation to business activities and assessing opportunities. 
plants, potential risks related to direct and indirect green- The analysis included reference to the sustainability issues 
house gas emissions, potential risks related to outbound  that are relevant to the SOL Group, in particular the risks po-
logistics, with particular reference to road transport. tentially present in product production phases and service 
delivery, as well as in business relationships. The assessment 
Social matters: potential risks related to compliance with  was extended, where relevant, to the supply chain. 
existing regulations regarding information to customers and 
patients, risks related to the supply of products and services  The Group has also adopted specific Policies signed by the 
that address customers’ needs, potential risks related to the  Chairman and by the General Managers containing the prin-
traceability of the origin of products and services, potential  ciples that underlie the activities of the Group’s companies, 
risks regarding the suppliers of services in the home care sec- in particular: 
tor and in general the management of social and environ- •  Quality management policy of SOL Group companies; 
mental risks along the supply chain, potential risks related to  •  Food safety policy of SOL Group companies;
the market and the respect for human rights, with particular  •  Energy management policy of SOL Group companies 
reference to the supply chain. •  Information security and business continuity 
management policy of SOL Group companies;
Employees’s related matters: potential risks related to em- •  Safety and Environment principles of SOL Group 
ployees’ health and safety and to compliance with legisla- companies;
tion concerning occupational health and safety. •  Principles and values on which personnel policies are 
based in SOL Group companies and the Social Media 
Compliance with laws and regulations matters: potential  Policy for the responsible use of social media.
risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations, including 
the issue of bribery and corruption.
To face the potential risks identified, the company carried 
out an assessment of the protections for each activity, of 
any shortcomings to be remedied and changes for improve-
ment. For the identification of risks related to material issues 
and the risk responses reference is made to the table in the 
chapter “Materiality analysis”.
The Company Managers are coordinated by Central Quali-
ty, Safety and Regulatory Affairs Management and are the 
governing bodies that oversee the main environmental, 
health and safety risks.