SUSTAINABILITY REPORT - SOL GROUP 31
THE SOL GROUP FOR INDUSTRY 
—
FOCUS ON THE CUSTOMER technical assistance services. Gas application technologies 
and related services are developed and constantly updated 
The development plan of the SOL Group focuses on continu- by the Group's marketing services in response to customer 
al research into innovative technological solutions which,  needs and specialised for multiple sectors of the environ-
through the use of technical gases, enable its customers to  ment and industry such as, for example, the food, metallur-
pursue goals in the area of energy and production effi- gical, chemical, pharmaceutical and petroleum industries.
ciency, the improvement of environmental compatibility 
and the protection of the health of their employees. The gases produced and distributed by SOL are: oxygen, 
nitrogen, argon, hydrogen, carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxide, 
To achieve these objectives, the solutions offered to custom- acetylene, nitrous oxide, gas mixtures, high purity gases, 
ers include, in addition to the supply of technical gases, the  food gases, gaseous helium, liquid helium, gases for elec-
most advanced gas application technologies, the construc- tronics, ammonia, combustible gases for industrial use and 
tion of specific plants to be combined with customer pro- liquefied natural gas (LNG).
cesses and the provision of the necessary maintenance and 
LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS: SOL'S 
TECHNOLOGY AND KNOW-HOW 
FOR CLEAN AND SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
—
Thanks to its extensive experience and ex- solution currently available to limit the envi-
pertise in the production, transport, storage  ronmental impact of heavy road transport 
and use of cryogenic gases, SOL has added  and maritime transport, as well as of the 
Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) to its list of  industrial sector.
products, a clean and highly sustainable 
energy solution. The SOL Group has been active in the LNG 
sector from the moment its use began in 
Liquefied Natural Gas is a cryogenic fluid  the transport sector. The Group is able to 
obtained by purification and liquefaction of  develop and propose technologies, plants 
the natural gas at about -160 °C. This makes  and services that allow its efficient use, de-
it possible to transport large quantities of  signing and creating plants for the produc-
product through specific cryogenic tanks,  tion of thermal energy and energy efficiency 
also at great distances from sources or in ar- through  cogeneration  and  refuelling  sta-
eas not reached by methane pipelines. tions for heavy (LNG truck) and light (gase-
ous methane car) traction.
Gas combustion significantly reduces emis-
sions of carbon dioxide and other pollutants 
such as SOx, NOx and fine dust compared 
to conventional fuels, proving to be the best 