34 CUSTOMERS, PATIENTS AND SUPPLIERS
THE SOL GROUP FOR HEALTHCARE 
—
SOL FOR THE HOSPITAL SECTOR Total Gas Management services
The new healthcare and therapeutic protocols require scien- The Total Gas Management (TGM) service offers healthcare 
tifically and technologically updated products, services and  structures the possibility of optimising the supply, man-
devices, which allow obtaining the best performance and  agement and maintenance of medical gas packs and 
the best possible therapeutic result. tanks, as well as medical devices and related systems. 
The service is designed on a case by case basis in order to 
The SOL Group therefore acts as a partner for the supply  satisfy the requirements of different organisational models.
of products, services and equipment, allowing the health-
care system to focus on its core business of delivering the  The SOL Group uses the web platform InfoHealth® SOLu-
"health" product to a very particular customer - the patient. tion to manage the traceability of medical gas packages 
and mobile medical devices, supplies and stock, the ordi-
nary and extraordinary maintenance of medical devices 
Design and development of medical devices
(including electromedical equipment) and plant technology. 
Validated according to Good Manufacturing Practices, the 
The SOL Group designs, manufactures and manages 
platform guarantees traceability, contributing to patient 
Medical Devices such as centralised plants for the pro-
safety.
duction and distribution of medical gases, endocavitary as-
piration and the evacuation of anaesthetic gases; devices 
for the administration of drugs, devices for the emergency  Preparation and distribution of 
management of gases; accessories and consumable mate- antineoplastic drugs
rials for the administration of drugs and the use of gases.
The focus on healthcare worker safety is a priority also 
In this context, SOL has accredited its own mobile labora-
in the design and construction of laboratories for handling 
tory for verifying the quality of the medical gases ad-
antineoplastic drugs, where personal exposure to hazardous 
ministered at the terminal distribution units.
chemicals must be kept under strict critical thresholds. The 
adoption of the latest technologies ensures accuracy in the 
dosages of therapies and eliminates the risk of potential 
handling errors, thus ensuring maximum safety for the pa-
tient. 
Electromedical equipment management 
services
SOL acts as a partner for the routine management and 
operation management of electromedical equipment, 
from the simplest devices to diagnostics for life-saving ther-
apies.
Sanitising services
SOL offers specialised hygiene programs that meet the 
needs of public and private users: from the design, develop-
ment and operation of surgical iron sterilisation plants and 
water and air treatment and sanitation systems, to the pro-
vision of customised integrated services for the sanitisation 
of industrial and civil environments.