SUSTAINABILITY REPORT - SOL GROUP 35
OUR JOURNEY IN CRYOBIOLOGY
Start of the cryobiological  Management in outsourcing of  Design and building of the first whole 
containers distribution in Italy. cryobiological rooms at hospitals. cryobiological room. 
1990 2004 2016
1996 2014 2019
Realization and management   Acquisition of Cryolab quotes, specialized  Realization of the 120th 
of cryobiological rooms at foreign  company in Cryobiology. cryobiological room.
hospitals.
Ambulance management services Disaster Recovery
Patient care begins from the moment they are transferred  The Disaster Recovery service guarantees public and private 
to hospital. For this reason, SOL is able to provide ambulance  structures  the  transfer  and  conservation  of  precious 
managers with medical and electromedical devices for their  biological samples to cryobiological rooms owned by the 
vehicles, maintenance and safety verification services,  SOL Group in emergency situations. In particular, Cryolab, 
vehicle sanitisation services and structured and voluntary  the joint venture with Tor Vergata University of Rome, is 
staff training. authorised by the Italian Ministry of Health and the Italian 
National Transplant Centre for the long-term and disaster 
recovery conservation of human gametes and blood.
Monitoring services
SOL offers a complete range of services for environmen- Bioshipping
tal, particle, microbiological, microclimatic and specific 
substance monitoring (e.g. anaesthetic gases in operating  The Bioshipping service makes it possible to transport bio-
environments), custom-designed for each type of room in  logical samples between health structures in complete-
the hospital facility according to the actual risk of exposure  ly safe and traceable conditions, with continuous temper-
established by current regulations. ature monitoring.
This service is becoming increasingly popular and important 
Design and development of biobanks
and is also used for delicate and often unique samples such 
as gametes. Cryolab, in particular, is able to satisfy the relia-
The service of designing and creating cryo-biological  bility and very high specialisation requirements established 
rooms is aimed at public and private structures that carry  by applicable regulations for Medically Assisted Procreation 
out scientific research, assisted reproduction and manip-
structures.
ulation for cell, tissue and organ transplants and need to 
preserve their biological samples for long periods of time in 
liquid nitrogen. Turnkey solutions are offered, including the  Training services
design, construction of premises, provision of all devices and 
maintenance and training services. Training in the safe use of medical gases, their contain-
ers and accessories is fundamental for the correct adminis-
tration and handling of products.
Training is provided through ECM courses, which can be 
accredited upon the request of the customer. These can be 
held both residentially and remotely in order to satisfy the 
needs of structures and individual students.