SUSTAINABILITY REPORT - SOL GROUP 37
VIVISOL FOR HOME CARE ASSISTANCE Infusion therapies 
Vivisol has established itself in Italy, throughout Europe and  To support patients requiring intravenous or subcutaneous 
Brazil as one of the leading Home care Providers of techno- home drug therapy, together with industry experts Vivisol 
logical and health services for complex therapies and often  has designed a series of dedicated services: services for ar-
life support for chronic patients. tificial nutrition, for insulin therapy, for immunotherapy, 
for the treatment of pain and for Parkinson's disease.
In a demographic and epidemiological context characte-
rised by progressive population ageing and the increased  Each service involves a careful selection of the medical de-
incidence of major chronic diseases, the role of Home care  vice by a highly specialised multidisciplinary team, training 
Providers becomes increasingly relevant for the better ma- the patient and their caregiver, on the use of the device, 
nagement of chronic patients who often suffer from mul- the coordination of activities for the management of the 
tiple conditions as well as fragility. In fact, adequate models  patient upon return from the hospital and the dietary and 
of home care provided by specialised providers have a po- nursing care dedicated to them, with the aim of ensuring 
sitive impact both on the health and well-being of patients  therapeutic continuity at home, in complete serenity.
and on the sustainability of different national healthcare 
systems.
Vivisol has a widespread presence in all the countries in 
which it operates thanks to a territorial network of Health 
Service Centres and Operational Centres active 365 days a  InfuSol was created in 2019, the new brand of the SOL 
year, 24 hours a day, from which home activities are coordi- Group's Homecare division dedicated to infusion therapies, 
nated and managed for over 500,000 patients worldwide. now active in France.
Respiratory therapies  Advanced Homecare
Vivisol provides oxygen therapy services for patients with  Vivisol provides home healthcare and social care services 
respiratory failure, both at their home and in different pla- for patients with temporary or chronic clinical needs through 
ces, thanks to the ViviTravel service, designed to follow pa- medical, nursing and rehabilitation teams. The various he-
tients travelling throughout Europe. alth activities are managed by 24-hour Operations Centres 
and on IT platforms that allow fluid communication betwe-
Through partnerships with well-established global manu- en Vivisol operators and the patient's clinical contact, thus 
facturers, over the years Vivisol has used the best techno- ensuring the reliability and efficiency of a system built on the 
logies to guarantee the patient complete management of  patient's needs. Vivisol has specific know-how in the mana-
respiratory therapy with invasive and non-invasive home  gement of highly complex patients, who are guaranteed 
mechanical ventilation. Supporting ventilatory therapy, Vi- the personalised care of their needs that integrates health 
visol assists the most complex patients who are often suffe- services with the management of life support technology. 
ring from neuromuscular diseases, also with complementary  Vivisol has a structured network of Palliative Care aimed at 
technologies and assistance including bronchoaspiration,  patients with oncological and degenerative diseases for whi-
cough assistant, humidifier. Vivisol also carries out an aero- ch there are either no therapies or they are ineffective for a 
sol therapy service, often used in the treatment of various  significant prolongation of life. These benefits can be provi-
diseases thanks to its effects.  ded at the patient's home or in Hospice (as in Germany and 
Poland). Vivisol also has specialised facilities such as clinics 
Vivisol is one of the leading companies in the market for the  dedicated to psychogeriatrics to assist the neuro-psychologi-
diagnosis and treatment of respiratory sleep disorders.  cal decay of elderly patients, and protected apartments for 
Innovative diagnostic solutions and personalised therapeu- people with complex disabilities which are designed accor-
tic care are supported by remote monitoring of patient sta- ding to the clinical-care needs of the patient.
tus to improve adherence to therapy. 