SUSTAINABILITY REPORT - SOL GROUP 39
HOME DIALYSIS: 
A SUSTAINABLE SOLUTION
—
Chronic kidney disease (CRD) is one of  To date, home dialysis services are divided  model proposed. In addition, an efficient 
the world's main health problems, affecting  into haemodialysis treatment and peri- logistics structure with widespread deploy-
about 10% of its population. When the  toneal dialysis treatment. While the first  ment in the territory coordinates home in-
proposed therapies are no longer effective  solution involves the extraction of the pa- terventions, making the service highly flexi-
and the disease evolves to a terminal stage,  tient's blood for extracorporeal purification,  ble and operational.
the proposed alternatives are dialysis and  the second involves the introduction into 
kidney transplantation. As for dialysis, about  the peritoneal cavity of an exchange fluid  For peritoneal dialysis therapies, Vivisol 
90% of patients are treated in hospital  and exploits the patient's peritoneum as a  aims to provide the same complete and effi-
facilities, resulting in high costs for the na- natural membrane (thin membrane that en- cient model of care, with the aim of encou-
tional healthcare system and a strong social  velops the abdominal viscera), thus proving  raging treatments at home and improving 
impact for patients.  to be a less invasive treatment.  the quality of life of patients and their fami-
lies. It is in this spirit that the SOL Group has 
On the other hand, there are several advan- Since 2019 Vivisol has offered haemodialy- decided to invest in companies dedicated to 
tages that derive from home therapy: mini- sis therapies at patients' homes, provi- the research and development of innovative 
misation of hospital admissions, creating  ding a service ranging from the provision of  drugs, able to provide solutions to the major 
significant savings for the national health  devices suitable for the house, to patient  causes of chronic end-stage renal failure. 
system, customisation of care, guarante- assistance by competent technical health 
ed by services which can be adapted to the  personnel. Technological solutions for re-
needs of the patient and have a positive  mote  patient  monitoring  and  periodic 
impact on the patient's quality of life, no  visits by healthcare professionals ensure the 
longer forced to go to hospital.  effectiveness and safety of the therapeutic 