SUSTAINABILITY REPORT - SOL GROUP 41
A NEW GENETIC TEST 
FOR AUTISM SPECTRUM DISORDERS
—
Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) include 
a  series  of  early  onset  neuro-develop-
mental disorders characterised by impaired 
social skills, such as learning to play with 
others, communication problems and repeti-
tive behaviours. ASD is a common condition 
(1 in 150), is usually diagnosed between two 
and four years of age and seems to affect 
more males than females (4:1). Scientific 
studies show a general increase in the dia-
gnoses of autism and related syndromes, 
which have more than doubled in the last 
decade.
The cause of the onset of ASD is not yet 
known, although current estimates attribute 
equal weight to genetic and environmen-
tal  factors.  Genetic  factors  may  involve 
both  new  mutations,  i.e.  mutations  that 
have arisen in the affected subject but are 
absent in the parents, and inherited muta-
tions. Genetic investigations in families with 
at least two members with this condition 
have identified a number of genes most  ditation from the Veneto Region, which will  analyses can be performed by looking in the 
frequently associated with autism. Compa- allow the disbursement of its services on  parent genome for the presence or absen-
red to the tests used to date and limited to  behalf of the National Healthcare Service. ce of the same mutations detected in the 
the study of abnormalities of chromosome  affected individual, to determine whether 
regions in patients with ASD or intellectual  Personal  Genomics  recently  developed  a  they have been inherited or whether they 
disabilities (e.g. aCGH), the sequencing of  genetic test for autism spectrum disor- are new.
the entire genome (WGS) has a conside- ders which is performed with a simple blo-
rably higher diagnostic potential because  od draw. The test is based on sequencing  ASD  diagnostics  is  increasingly  referring 
it is able to simultaneously search for DNA  the entire genome using Next Generation  to genetics for the enormous potential it 
alterations in all genes and relevant regions.  Sequencing (NGS) technology and bioinfor- offers. The result of the test, in addition to 
matics analysis targeting genes and chro- helping to understand the causes of the di-
Personal Genomics, a SOL Group company  mosomal regions currently associated with  sorder, will greatly strengthen the molecular 
since 2017, certified UNI EN ISO 9001 and  autism spectrum disorders. The test allows  knowledge of specific phenotypes of ASD 
SIGUCERT (certification issued by the Italian  detecting both small sequence variations  and also allow building a targeted and fami-
Society of Human Genetics), operates as a  (single  nucleotide  polymorphisms,  small  liar rehabilitation intervention.
Medical Genetics Laboratory and aims  insertions and deletions) and some large 
to provide genetic tests and services in the  chromosomal  rearrangements  (deletions 
world of research and clinical diagnosis. The  or duplications) based on the data in the 
company has obtained institutional accre- reference databases. In addition, post-test 