SUSTAINABILITY REPORT - SOL GROUP 43
CUSTOMER AND 
PATIENT SATISFACTION
—
Customer and patient satisfaction is a priority for SOL and  In addition, in 2019 some Group companies carried out 
must be monitored constantly, checking the quality of servi- ad hoc surveys which demonstrated very positive results. 
ce offered and identifying the areas for intervention with a  In the industrial and medical sector, 355 customers were 
view to continuous improvement. involved in Albania, Bosnia Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, 
France, Greece, Ireland, Morocco, Slovenia and Turkey. In the 
Their satisfaction is constantly kept under control thanks to  homecare sector, 1,401 patients were involved in Brazil, Ire-
key performance indicator (KPIs) monitoring (customer  land, the Netherlands, Poland and Spain and feedback was 
and patient complaints, response times to customer orders  collected from 1,780 patients in the UK alone.
and patient requests, etc.) in order to promptly activate the 
necessary corrective actions.
VIVISOL, LEADER IN TECHNOLOGICAL 
INNOVATION FOR ITS PATIENTS
—
Last November at the Aboutpharma Di- Of the 261 projects presented in the 10 
gital  Awards, Vivisol won an important  categories envisaged, for 370 total appli-
award dedicated to projects that enhance  cations, Vivisol's project was awarded Best 
the implementation of the digital sphere in  Project in the HTA, Patient and Market 
healthcare. Access category in front of an audience 
of representatives from the most important 
The  award  was  given  for  the  Resmon  Italian and international companies.
project, which reflects the perfect synergy 
of technology with high scientific content  The selection was made by a jury of experts 
and innovation with the home care provi- from the world of industry, institutions, as-
der, the primary actor in the context of chro- sociations  and  universities  (Confindustria, 
nic disease management.  Google, La Sapienza University, the Italian 
Federation of Mutual Doctors, Federfarma, 
Resmon Pro Diary allows the early identi- the Italian Association of Clinical Engineers, 
fication of exacerbations in patients with  Cittadinanzattiva, the Italian Drug Agency).
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease and 
the subsequent optimal management of  The award took into account the impact 
chronic disease. With remote home moni- that the Resmon project has on the quality 
toring of patients with COPD, the Resmon  of life of patients, also considering the co-
Pro Diary device can predict any worsening  efficient of real innovation, effective imple-
of the disease, even before symptoms oc- mentation and usability.
cur. This leads to the preventive treatment 
of patients, and exacerbations and thus the 
irreversible deterioration of their state of he-
alth are avoided.