44 CUSTOMERS, PATIENTS AND SUPPLIERS
SUPPLIERS
—
SOL  is  aware  that  the  supplier's  role  is  central  in  all  During 2019, 105 supplier audits were performed (100 
development phases of a project, an idea and the image  in 2018), which mainly concerned aspects connected to 
of the company itself. The suppliers the company maintains  quality, environment and health and safety.
contact with are asked to assume the SOL value system.
Suppliers are required to read and adhere to the Group Code 
of Ethics and, in Italy, also the Organisation, Management 
and Control Model pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 
no. 231/01, as well as the Group’s safety and environment 
policies.
The companies that are part of the SOL Group are essentially 
'local' businesses. Production facilities are built close to 
customers and distribution is usually carried out within the 
home country of the vendor company.
The main products and services purchased by the Group 
companies are electricity and transport, maintenance and 
technical assistance services. A wider choice exists for supply 
sources in respect of capital goods: sales means (cylinders, 
tanks, tankers, etc.), plants and equipment.
In 2018 the Group issued a new directive valid for all Group 
companies in relation to the supplier evaluation process in a 
risk analysis logic. When selecting its partners for the supply 
of goods and services that are critical for safety, quality and 
the environment, SOL uses a qualifying process to establish 
whether  a  potential  partner  meets  the  requirements 
demanded by company procedures. Possession of these 
requisites is verified by objective methods such as the filling 
out of questionnaires and, where necessary, the carrying 
out of audits at supplier premises. Several training sessions 
on the contents of the directive were held in 2019 for the 
Quality Managers of all Group companies. A questionnaire 
was then submitted to verify the effective transposition of 
the new supplier qualification process: to date it has been 
implemented by 60% of the companies that responded to 
the questionnaire (58% redemption), and the remaining 
companies have committed to do so by the end of 2020.