SUSTAINABILITY REPORT - SOL GROUP 4477
MAIN  Electricity consumption in production plants and the distribution of products to customers, 
hospitals and patients are the most significant environmental aspects for the SOL Group.
ENVIRONMENTAL 
The activities of the SOL Group have a fairly limited impact on biodiversity as the production units are 
ASPECTS  relatively small and located in industrial areas. 
Furthermore, the substances produced ad handled by the SOL Group do not pose a contamination 
risk to the soil and subsoil. Some units have been constructed in locations that have soil and groun-
— dwater contamination problems, but these have other causes and pre-dated the arrival of SOL.
The table shows the raw materials used for the main types of production units and the environmental 
aspects connected to these activities. 
The environmental data presented in this Report refer to the types of plants listed below, unless 
otherwise indicated. 
TYPE OF UNIT N° RAW MATERIALS ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
AIR SEPARATION UNITS  15 The process of air separation for the  The process has significant indirect 
(ASU) production of oxygen, nitrogen and argon is  environmental impacts due to the 
a physical one that uses atmospheric air as  consumption of a great deal of electricity. 
its raw material. On the other hand, it does not use raw 
materials other than atmospheric air 
and involves negligible emissions of CO, 
2
sulphur oxides (SO) and nitrous oxides 
X
(NO), already present in the treated air.
X
HYDROGEN PRODUCTION  2 These use natural gas and water (steam) as  Hydrogen production plants emit CO as 
2
PLANTS raw materials, which chemically react with  a sub product of the chemical reaction 
each other to produce hydrogen. and negligible quantities of nitrous oxides 
(NO). Added to this is the consumption of 
X
methane for heating process currents.
NITROUS OXIDE  3 These use ammonium nitrate, either solid  NO production plants can emit the 
2
PRODUCTION PLANTS or in water solution, as a raw material in a  gas produced (greenhouse gas) from 
thermal dissociation process. their vents and consume electricity to 
bring the ammonium nitrate to reaction 
temperature. Chemicals (H2SO4, KMn04, 
NaOH) are used for the purification of 
nitrous oxide.
ACETYLENE PRODUCTION  4 These use calcium carbide as a raw  One by-product of this process is calcium 
PLANTS material, a solid that decomposes in water. hydroxide which, where possible, is used in 
industry or agriculture. Otherwise the lime 
is disposed of as waste.
PLANTS FOR PURIFYING  6 The raw material is carbon dioxide itself,  CO production plants can emit the gas 
2
AND LIQUEFYING CARBON  obtained as a by-product from chemical  produced (greenhouse gas) from their 
DIOXIDE plants or from natural underground  vents.
deposits. The carbon dioxide is purified and  On the other hand, the carbon dioxide 
liquefied with the use of energy.  obtained in this way is reused in industrial 
applications instead of being emitted 
directly into the atmosphere.