5500 THE ENVIRONMENT
Indirect emissions A total of 91.3 million kilometres were travelled. 
Starting with an analysis of the energy supply mix, the indi-
rect emissions generated by the production of the electricity  Based on the type of vehicle for the three main types of pro-
acquired by the SOL Group for its production plants were cal- ducts transported, total forecast emissions came to around 
culated. These emissions came to around 281,310 tonnes  53,000 tonnes of CO equivalent.
2
of CO equivalent (calculated according to the “market-ba-
2
sed" method), higher than 2018 mainly due to the increase 
in production.
Direct emissions from deliveries to customers and 
patients KILOMETRES TRAVELLED PER M3 OF CRYOGENIC 
Starting from 2016, the monitoring of emissions as a result  GASES TRANSPORTED IN TANKERS 
of delivery activities was extended to all product types: (Base 2015=100)
•  products in tankers and tube trailers;
•  products in mobile containers; 100 96
•  home care products. 100
91 92 91
Attention to transportation is of fundamental importance  75
as regards environmental and safety aspects.
50
Products are distributed mainly by road and to an extremely 
widespread customer base.
25
The chemical and physical characteristics of the main pro-
ducts also make it necessary to use special vehicles for tran-
sportation (heavily insulated tankers for cryogenic liquids) or  2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
special containers (cylinders for compressed gases and base 
units for liquid oxygen for home care use). In both cases, the 
unfavourable ratio between the tare weight and the weight 
of the transported products results in a low level of fuel con-
sumption efficiency per product unit sold.
Bearing these restrictions in mind, the SOL Group’s actions 
to reduce fuel consumption and therefore its environmental 
impact have consisted of:
•  developing production units spread as widely as possible 
across the country in order to reduce the journey lengths 
of vehicles;
•  the periodical upgrading of the company fleet, 
particularly with the purchase of next-generation heavily 
insulated tankers, with a better ratio between the weight 
of the transported product and the total weight;
•  the adoption of logistics management methods aimed 
at optimising routes.
Rainbow, the software for planning the distribution of liquid 
products adopted and fine-tuned in 2012 for companies 
operating in Italy, has gradually also been adopted by all of 
the other companies. 