5522 THE ENVIRONMENT
BIOMETHER, THE SUSTAINABILITY 
OF THE BIOMETHANE CHAIN
—
In 2019 the BioMether project was com- Biomethane is a gas consisting mainly of  The biomethane obtained from the first 
pleted, an initiative co-financed by the LIFE+  methane  produced  by  the  anaerobic  site will be used to power the buses of the 
program (EU financial instrument) and the  digestion of biomass, obtained by an up- Ravenna public transport service, while 
Emilia Romagna Region, created with the  grading process that generates greenhouse  biomethane from the second site will supply 
aim of launching the biomethane supply  gas emissions 75%-200% lower than fossil fu- the IREN Group's methane vehicles and 
chain in the Emilia Romagna region. The  els, proving to be a renewable source in line  two of the three Polo TGIs Volkswagen has 
Biomether project was developed by SOL in  with the EU 2020 targets.  provided for product testing. The objective is 
collaboration with ART-ER, CRPA Lab, IRETI,  to demonstrate the sustainability of biome-
IREN, IREN Smart Solutions and Herambi- Biomether's objective is to demonstrate the  thane, given its low emissions and reduced 
ente, which saw the creation of two pilot  technical feasibility and sustainability of the  negative impact on air quality. 
plants with innovative biogas purification (or  production and use of biomethane thanks to 
upgrading) technology for the production of  monitoring that will continue until 2022. Each year the plants are able to produce 
biomethane for its introduction into the nat- 14,656 Sm3 of biomethane, saving 28.76 
ural gas network and/or for use for autotrac- The project provided for the construction  tCO of carbon dioxide. The project is an im-
2
tion.  of two plants in Ravenna and Roncoce- portant example of circular economy, where 
si, which respectively produce biogas from  a commonly considered waste product is pro-
non-hazardous  waste  landfill  and  sewage  moted to recyclable and sustainable resource. 
sludge. In particular the Ravenna plant, in  SOL won the Responsible Care award in 
addition to being the first in Italy to produce  2017 with this project.
fuel for local public transport, is also the first 
biomethane production plant from land- With the final conference Biomethane in 
Roncocesi
fill biogas built in Italy. The plant consists  Emilia-Romagna held on 27 September in 
Ravenna of two purification steps: the first, more “tradi- Bologna, the regional guidelines were pre-
tional” one in which the CO present in the bi- sented, drafted by Biomether for the devel-
2
ogas is removed through the use of polymer  opment of the sector in the region.
membranes, as also takes place in the Ron-
cocesi plant, while the second step is specific 
for production plants of biomethane from 
landfill biogas, called polishing, in which ni-
trogen, typically present in large quantities in 
landfill biogases, is removed.