58 PEOPLE AND THE COMMUNITY
TRAINING AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT With the aim of promoting and encouraging the specialisa-
tion of employees, SOL provides funding for specialisation 
Employee training is an essential element for the Group,  and qualifying study courses, allowing employees of any 
which considers its people's skills as an enrichment and va- age and level to pursue training suitable for their professio-
lue to be safeguarded for operational excellence and the  nal role. 
achievement of company objectives. 
In 2019, 71,821 total hours were devoted to training, recor-
With the specific intention of meeting the training needs of  ding an average of 17 hours per employee (16 in 2018). 
each level and conveying a message of corporate involve-
ment and collaboration for staff growth, in 2019 the SOL  The desire to maintain close contact with young graduates 
Group revised its Onboarding program, an initiative establi- and make itself a reference point has always pushed SOL to 
shed for new hires. In addition to bringing the new arrivals  cultivate partnerships with different universities over the 
into contact with all that is SOL, its history and the organi- years. In particular, the Group interacts regularly with the 
sation of its business, the activity offers first brief training  Politecnico di Milano thanks to frequent meetings throu-
meetings (directed by the quality, health and safety and  ghout the year. Through these moments of contact with 
regulatory affairs departments) and the opportunity to get  students, SOL has the opportunity to make itself known and 
to know the function manager of each new hire. Starting  to provide assessment, orientation and recruiting activities, 
in 2019, the new hire project was organised according to  offering a fundamental service for young people. The Group 
a timely scheduling system, updated every six months and  continues to provide training projects for the Collège des 
shared with the Board of Directors.  Ingénieurs Italia, a management training institute, by ma-
king the skills and experiences of its people available. The 
The SOL YOUth Academy project aimed at young talent  initiative is not limited to the sharing of specialised know-
was launched in 2018 and successfully carried out in 2019  how but lies in the opportunity to hire young talents stu-
as well. The training school is entirely dedicated to employe- dying to obtain their master’s Degrees after they complete 
es under the age of 35 and seeks to develop Project Ma- internships with the company lasting 6 months. 
nagement and Business Presentation skills through team 
working, sharing and collaboration activities, with the aim 
of identifying and training tomorrow's leaders. During 2019, 
the organisational foundations were laid for SOL YOUth 
Academy International, an international version of the 
project that will be launched in 2020 and envisages the par-
ticipation of colleagues from different countries.
IMAGINE THE FUTURE 
OF HOME CARE
—
The project involved Vivisol's sales force in  of visual aids, synthesised the reflections of 
a moment of reflection, led by an external  the working day into posters.
trainer, on how customers, patients, services, 
competitors and technologies in home care  The results of the day allowed the identifica-
have changed in the last five years and how  tion of training gaps with respect to the new 
they will change in the future. market scenarios in order to create a skills 
development path that will end in 2020.
At the end of the session, a “Once Upon a 
Time" blog was created for internal use that 
gathered all the different contributions and 
some graphics that, thanks to the presence 