SUSTAINABILITY REPORT - SOL GROUP 59
PROTECTING DIVERSITY Moreover, the number of women who sit on the Board of 
Directors of parent company SOL Spa rose from five to six, 
SOL recognises diversity as a wealth and an opportunity for  representing 55% of the 11 members.
self-discovery and acceptance of others; gender equality 
and culture are common values in all the companies of the 
Group.
COMPOSITION OF THE SOL SPA BOARD 
The progressive extension of our activities in new countries  OF DIRECTORS AS OF DECEMBER 31ST, 2019
requires us to pay increasing attention to the national and 
cultural differences present within the Group companies. 
The SOL Group’s aim is to promote local resources at all le-
vels of the organisation, giving priority to local managers  45%
and assigning control and monitoring tasks to central fun- Age >50
ctions.
The multiplicity and wealth of the SOL Group is clear when  45% 45% 55%
Age >50 MEN  WOMEN
considering the following indicators:
•  40% of employees are women. The presence of women, 
slightly up compared to 2018, is more consistent among 
white collar employees, accounting for 53%;
•  SOL employees are distributed in the following age  9%
Age 41-50
groups: 20 years (12%), 30 years (34%) and 40 years 
(30%), those over 50 represent 24% of the company 
population.
INTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS AND EN- Thematic newsletters are another way of communicating 
GAGEMENT with all colleagues: examples include Safety Alerts sent by 
HSE Management and other corporate departments. Throu-
The SOL Group considers internal communication an impor- gh these periodic communications, SOL intends to provide 
tant support for the creation of corporate culture and the  its people with the necessary tools to cope with new regula-
growth of people and the organisation, encouraging and  tions or to manage critical situations, starting from specific 
promoting the exchange of information, knowledge and  events in the sector.
experience.
In 2019 Vivisol in Austria carried out a climate survey with 
The desire to inform and involve all people has led to the  the aim of evaluating the strengths and areas of improve-
adoption of different communication tools. First and fore- ment of the business climate. The results of the survey were 
most is the company’s house organ, SOL News, renewed in  analysed and communicated to the employees involved, 
2017 to reach the entire company population.  and specific internal meetings were held to assess the data 
and define any necessary improvement actions. In 2019 
In this context, the company intranet SOLConnect also  Vivisol Nederland implemented an intervention plan in re-
plays a fundamental role, as it is full of useful information  sponse to the areas of improvement that emerged from its 
not only for the correct management of the integrated ma- business climate survey carried out in 2018.
nagement system procedures, but to allow everyone to be 
an active part of company life as well, also thanks to the  The objective for 2020 is to create a real HR Community 
news periodically published in reference to local and global  that brings together the HR Managers of the Group compa-
events. nies who, at an annual event, meet to share best practices 
and define guidelines at Corporate level on the main issues 
concerning human resources management.