60 PEOPLE AND THE COMMUNITY
SOLCONNECT, THE PLATFORM THAT 
COMMUNICATES THE SOL WORLD
—
The new SOLConnect corporate intranet  agues from different SOL companies work to 
was created in 2019, a communication pla- keep the information in the main database 
tform of the SOL Group that has officially  always relevant, complete and up to date, 
been in place since 1 January 2020. taking advantage of the system as a col- New  applications,  called  iApps,  will  be 
lective sharing desktop. progressively developed to ensure both to-
The system was built on a common infra- tally new workflows and updates to existing 
structure with the aim of responding to the  SOLConnect continues to be the source of  ones. The first of these will be dedicated to 
characteristics and needs of the Group at  the Group's documents and information,  the management of Non-Conformities and 
international level by assigning each user  in particular for quality, safety and environ- complaints so that all Group companies use 
the specific work area to which they belong,  ment activities. the same classification, management flow 
within which they can share their respecti- and reporting methods.
ve work tools and systems. Everyday colle-
REMUNERATION AND INDUSTRIAL  In any case, the salary increases established by collective 
RELATIONS bargaining in the sector or by current legislation are guaran-
teed and where union representation is present, supplemen-
The SOL Group makes no distinction between the sexes in  tary contracts are negotiated that can include production 
the management of remuneration policies which are based  and/or  participation  bonuses  connected  with  corporate 
on merit, competences and results for each role. productivity profitability parameters such as quality impro-
vement and injuries prevention.
Where required by local legislation in the countries in which 
it operates, the SOL Group applies the collective contracts  Furthermore, the Group strives to promote tools that protect 
for the relevant sector or, alternatively, salaries above the  the health of employees and their families, and those that 
minimum legal wage. integrate the pension services established by local laws.
64.6% of the SOL Group’s employees are covered by collecti- Personnel and Legal Affairs Central Management directly 
ve labour agreements, including 100% of Italian employees  manages industrial relations for all Italian companies in the 
and 50.7% of employees in other countries. Group and supports overseas companies, intervening when 
necessary.
On average, wages and salaries, which are monitored by lo-
cal managers and Personnel and Legal Affairs Central Mana- SOL is an active member of the chemical industry confede-
gement, are better than those of the market. ration (Federchimica) and takes part in negotiations in Italy 
for the renewal of the chemical and chemical-pharmaceuti-
In 2019, the total remuneration paid to the Chairman and  cal national collective labour agreements and in other joint 
Chief Executive Officer Aldo Fumagalli Romario was 14.31  schemes by the social partners.
times the average total remuneration of Group employees 
in Italy. (1) At corporate level SOL maintains periodic relations with its 
unions based on the utmost cooperation and transparency. 
Every year, all managers are required to evaluate the per- No labour disputes occurred in any of the Group companies 
formance of their staff and to refer wage increase and/or  and in 2019 there were no recorded hours of strike action.
career development proposals to the relevant departments 
and Personnel and Legal Affairs Central Management.
(1) The overall salary includes gross annual remuneration plus the variable components. All employees of SOL Spa and of the other companies whose payroll is managed directly by Per-
sonnel and Legal Affairs Central Management are considered.