62 PEOPLE AND THE COMMUNITY
COMMITMENT TO THE 
COMMUNITY   
—
For two years now, the SOL Group has been working to of- In France Vivisol France, France Oxygen and MBAR suppor-
fer a work-school alternation path, signing an agreement  ted organisations for clinical research into respiratory illnes-
with Paolo Frisi Scientific High School in Monza. Starting  ses. In addition to supporting various associations in the 
in June, five students were given the opportunity to work  Netherlands, Vivisol sponsored the Villa Pardoes Winter 
alongside a company tutor to have an internal perspective  Run 2019, a charitable race, which also had Group employe-
on work in the company. es participate.
The SOL Group has always supported bodies, institutions, 
associations and sports clubs that operate in harmony with  ASSOCIATIONS
its values, making financial contributions and offering them 
the benefit of its expertise. International industry associations
In Italy, the SOL Group provided its support to the La Meri- SOL Spa and Irish Oxygen are members of IOMA (Interna-
diana Cooperative in Monza this year as well, promoting the  tional Oxygen Manufacturers Association), which gathers to-
SLAncio project which provides people affected by invalida- gether the world’s leading operators in the technical and me-
ting neurological and neuromuscular diseases with assistan- dical gases sector. The principal objective of the association 
ce, and the Il Paese Ritrovato project, a small village wi- is to coordinate the harmonisation of safety rules so that 
thout architectural barriers designed for the free movement  operational practices are the same throughout the world.
of people with dementia. 
SOL Spa, SOL Nederland, BTG, SOL Deutschland, Irish Oxy-
Vivisol actively supports research by funding grants and  gen and Vivisol Austria are members of EIGA (European In-
scholarships in favour of different medical hospitals, such  dustrial Gases Association), which gathers together Europe’s 
as the Institute of Biomedicine and Molecular Immu- leading operators in the technical and medical gases sector.
nology of Palermo, which carries out important outpatient 
medical and welfare activities in the diagnosis and therapy  To date, the SOL Group is present with its representatives 
of bronchopulmonary diseases, and the Medicine Depart- on the Board of EIGA, in four Councils (Stefania Mariani is 
ment of the University of Rome, for which a contribution  Chairwoman of the Medical Gases Council), in 15 Working 
for neurological research has been granted.  Groups and in 28 Ad hoc Groups/Task Forces, contributing to 
the definition of industry standards and best practices.
Vivisol has also renewed its support to the Anna Meyer Pa-
ediatric Hospital Foundation for a project for the creation  SOL Spa is a member of the European, Middle Eastern & Afri-
of a database of paediatric patients undergoing long-term  can Society for Biopreservation & Biobanking (ESBB).
home ventilation, and to the ANT Italia Foundation which 
provides specialist home medical care services to cancer pa- In Italy, SOL is a member of Federchimica and Assogastec-
tients free of charge. nici; within Assogastecnici SOL is present in all the Steering 
Committees (Giulio Bottes is Chairman of the Steering Com-
Several contributions were made in the specific field of  mittee of the Medicinal Gas Group for Hospital Services). 
pneumology in favour of university hospital centres such as  Vivisol is a member of Confindustria Dispositivi Medici (Con-
Sant'Orsola General Hospital in Bologna for the develop- findustria Medical Devices), in which it has promoted the 
ment and implementation of the sleep laboratory, and Mo- creation of the association "Home & Digital Care" (of which 
linette Presidium in Turin for respiratory physiotherapy. Claudio Petronio is Chairman), an association that brings the 
main Home care providers and digital health professionals 
This year the SOL Group also participated in the 19th edition  together.
of the Milan Marathon, the event in support of ViviDown 
Onlus. The company took part in the relay event with its two 
teams, SOL and Vivisol.