SUSTAINABILITY REPORT - SOL GROUP 73
This document is the Consolidated Non-Financial Statement  of stakeholders. During 2020, the stakeholder engagement 
(hereinafter also the "Sustainability Report"), drafted in com- process will be expanded, creating a questionnaire that will 
pliance with the Italian Legislative Decree no. 254/2016  be sent to the Group's main stakeholders. 
and, as envisaged in Art. 5 of the aforementioned Decree, 
constitutes a separate Report from the Management Re- The emissions aspect, within the topic of the environmental 
port. This document addresses the issues considered rele- impact of production, was significant only in terms of CO 
2
vant envisaged in Art. 3 and 4 of Italian Legislative Decree  emissions. It should be noted, however, that with regard to 
no. 254/2016 with reference to the year 2019 (January  other emissions, some production plants hold an Integrated 
1 to December 31), to the extent necessary to ensure an  Environmental Authorisation. The Authorisation provides for 
understanding of the Group's activity, its progress, its results  the monitoring of emissions of NOx, VOC, NH3 and CO into 
and the social and environmental impact produced by the  the atmosphere and the annual notification of the same to 
same. the Competent Authority. There were no out of bounds in 
the reporting period.
The reporting scope of the Sustainability Report is the same 
as the SOL Group's Consolidated Financial Statements as of  The SOL Group has published an annual Sustainability Re-
December 31st, 2019 (§ "Group Composition and scope of  port since 2009. This Sustainability Report was approved by 
consolidation" of the Consolidated Financial Statements).  the SOL Spa Board of Directors on 27 March 2020.
In 2019 P Par Partecipacoes was acquired in Brazil, Inten-
sivservice Wanninger in Germany and Spitex Perspecta in  The Report was subject to a limited assurance engage-
Switzerland.  ment according to the criteria set out by the ISAE 3000 Re-
vised principle. This engagement was carried out by Deloitte 
For environmental data and information, see the chapter  & Touche S.p.A. which, at the end of the work performed, 
“The environment”, which explains any eventual variations  issued a specific report with regard to the compliance of the 
in the scope of reporting, which do not limit the understan- information provided in the Consolidated Non-Financial Sta-
ding of the Group’s activities or its impact. tement prepared by SOL Group as required by Italian Legi-
slative Decree no. 254/2016.
The content of this Report refers to 2019 and, in particular, 
the activities carried out by the SOL Group during the year,  The Group has envisaged a continuous improvement pro-
unless otherwise noted. Data relating to previous years is  cess with regard to material sustainability issues in order to 
reported where possible for comparative purposes, making  comply in an increasingly virtuous way with regulations and 
it possible to assess longer-term trends in the Group’s activi- best practices in the sector. More specifically, with regard to 
ties. Restatements to previously published comparative data  the theme of respecting human rights, in 2006 the Group 
are clearly indicated. Furthermore, in order to guarantee a  adopted a Code of Ethics (updated in 2017) which has 
correct representation of the performance and reliability of  specific provisions on human rights issues. In fact, the SOL 
the data, estimates have been limited as much as possible.  Group undertakes to support the protection and defence of 
Where estimates were used, they were based on the best  human rights according to the principles laid down by the 
available methodologies and suitably indicated. Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948), and acknow-
ledges the principles established by the basic Conventions 
The Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance  of the ILO (International Labour Organisation). The Code 
with the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Re- of Ethics applies to everyone who carries out work for the 
porting Standards: Core option defined in 2016 by the  SOL Group (including all employees, interns, agency staff) 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Regarding the specific  and administrators of SOL Group companies. The Code of 
standards GRI 403 (Occupational Health and Safety) and  Ethics also applies to all those who, in various capacities, 
GRI 303 (Water and Effluents), the latest version of 2018  come in contact with the Group (such as suppliers, partners, 
was adopted. customers etc.). During 2018, given the importance of in-
creasingly monitoring the supply chain, the Group adopted 
The information contained in the Report refers to issues  a new directive valid for all Group companies in relation to 
identified as material and the related indicators that reflect  the supplier assessment process in terms of risk analysis, 
the significant economic, environmental and social impacts  including aspects related to human rights. Several training 
of the organisation or that could substantially influence  sessions were organised in 2019 for the Quality Managers 
the evaluations and decisions of the Group’s stakeholders.  of all Group companies.
The materiality analysis updated in 2019 and shared with 
the Board of Directors of SOL Spa served as a guideline for  The Group will continue its commitment to the analysis and 
defining the content to report, in line with the expectations  reconciliation of SOL's activities and priorities and the SDGs.