86 Glossario
THE GLOSSARY
Cylinder: container in steel or light alloy for  Dispenser: container with vacuum insulated  Severity index: ratio between days of absence 
compressed, liquefied or dissolved gases. cavity to contain highly refrigerated liquefied  due to injury and hours worked multiplied by 1 
cryogenic gases characterized and composed  million. It measures the severity of injuries.
Conditioning: a production operation that  by interception, measurement and safety 
consists in taking gas from a secondary storage  instruments. Injury: undesired event in the workplace that 
tank and compressing it in a gaseous or liquid  provokes bodily damage or objectively verifiable 
state and transferring it to mobile containers.  Air separation: process of separation, by  illness.
Conditioning also includes the sequence of  distillation, of gas components of the air, 
operations carried out on the containers from  obtaining liquid and gaseous products. IPPC (Integrated Pollution Prevention and 
when they arrive at the centre to the storage of  Control): Strategy instituted with European 
full containers ready for delivery. Medical gases: both gases intended to be  Directive no. 75 of 24/11/2010 "Industrial 
administered to the patient (such as medical  Emission Directive” (I.E.D.) for minimising the 
Seveso Directive (2012/18/EU and later  oxygen, oxygen 93%, nitrous of medical  pollution caused by various sources throughout 
modifications): European standard intended  nitrogen, medical air) and gases not intended for  the EU. All types of installation listed in Appendix 
to prevent and control the occurrence of major  administration but used for other purposes in the  1 of the Directive must obtain integrated 
accidents, through the identification of one’s  processing of the same, such as air and nitrogen  authorisation from the authorities of the various 
sites at risk. for foods or surgical instruments. countries. It is based on the premise that 
It governs industrial activities that involve the  the failure to adopt a common approach for 
stocking and/or use of certain quantities of  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): a multi- controlling emissions into air, water and terrain 
dangerous substances. stakeholder network instituted in 1997 and  could lead not to a reduction of pollution but to 
made up of companies, NGOs, associations of  its transfer from one compartment to another.
Medical Device (DM): any instrument,  accountancy experts, business organisations 
apparatus, equipment, machine, device, plant,  and other international stakeholders involved  ISO 9001: Recognised standard for Quality 
reagent in vitro or for calibration, computer  in subjects relating to Corporate Social  Management Systems which provides a 
software, material or other similar or related  Responsibility. GRI’s mission is to develop, supply  method and reference standards for running an 
product for use, alone or in culmination, on  and promote global reference guidelines for  organisation in a smart and aware manner for 
persons for one or more specific purposes  the drawing up of Sustainability Reports that  customer satisfaction.
of diagnosis, prevention, control, therapy or  describe the economic, environmental and social 
attenuation of an illness; for diagnosis, control,  impacts that companies or organisations cause  OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001: English standard 
therapy, attenuation or compensation of a  with their activities. specifying the requirements for a management 
wound or handicap; for studying, substituting  system for health and safety at work, in order to 
or modifying anatomy or a physiological  Accident: unexpected event with potential  enable organisations to provide safe and healthy 
process; for intervening on conception where  harmful effect to oneself, other people or third- workplaces, preventing work-related injuries 
the main desired action in or on the human  party objects. and illnesses and proactively improving its 
body is not carried out with pharmacological or  performance. The standard has been superseded 
immunological means or through metabolism,  Major accident: event such as a serious spill, fire  by the publication of the international standard 
but whose function can be aided by these  or explosion due to uncontrolled developments  ISO 45001 which will definitely repeal it in 
means. in activities in the presence or use of dangerous  2021, the date on which the transition of the 
substances, that could cause grave danger for  management systems from OHSAS 18001 to 
EMAS (Eco-Management and Audit  human health or the environment. ISO 45001 will have to be completed.
Scheme): Regulation 761/2001 of the 
European Community. A voluntary instrument  Frequency index: ratio between the number  ISO 13485 (Medical devices – quality 
for implementing Community Environmental  of accidents and hours worked multiplied by 1  management systems): a standard specifically 
Policy aimed at continually improving the  million. It measures the frequency of accident  aimed at companies operating in the medical 
environmental performance of the companies  occurrence. sector such as SOL, designed for those who apply 
and businesses adopting it. targeted quality controls to medical devices.