SUSTAINABILITY REPORT - SOL GROUP 87
ISO 14001 (Environmental Management):  Residual mix: refers to the average primary  Steam reforming: process in which methane 
ISO 14001 is a guarantor of the precise control  energy sources that were not intended for  reacts with steam, in the presence of a catalyst, 
of environmental aspects, reducing impact  a specific entity or to an end consumer. If a  to produce hydrogen and CO.
2
and ensuring legislative compliance, aimed at  consumer uses the power grid without having  Primary storage: liquefied cryogenic gas 
maintaining an Environmental Management  purchased a GO certificate, he then has to use  container filled directly by the production plant.
System.  the residual mix in the calculation of its footprint.
The Residual mix is calculated for each year and  Secondary storage: liquefied cryogenic gas 
ISO 22000 (Food Safety Management  country by organisations that are part of the  container filled by tankers, normally installed in 
Systems): the standard defined for the effective  European E-Track program, such as RE-DISS. secondary process units.
control, improvement and development of food 
safety management, for organisations that want  Responsible Care: a voluntary program of  Sustainable development: the progress that 
to ensure its safety. the world chemical industry based on the  helps meet current economic, environmental 
implementation of principles and conduct  and social needs, consistent with the protection 
ISO 27001 (Information security): the ISO  concerning the safety and health of employees  of the environment and the free goods (non-
27001 standard defines the requirements for  and environmental protection, and the  economic) of future generations.
establishing and coordinating an Information  commitment to communicate the results 
Security Management System (logical, physical  obtained aiming for continual, significant and  Primary process units: units where gases are 
and organisational security), with the aim  tangible improvement. produced from raw materials.
of protecting data and information from all 
kinds of threats, guaranteeing their integrity,  Food safety: hygienic - sanitary prevention, for  Secondary process units: units where gases are 
confidentiality and availability. which food is subjected to strict controls that  conditioned and packaged, normally using gases 
ensure correct preparation in accordance with its  coming from primary process units, into their 
ISO 50001 (Energy Management): standard  use and consumption, assuring its safety to the  physical form (which may be compressed gas 
aimed at helping organisations improve their  consumer. or cryogenic liquid) in the containers (cylinders, 
energy performance, increasing energy efficiency  cylinder bundles, drums or tanks) best suited 
and reducing climate and environmental impact. SIGUCERT: The SIGU (Italian Society of Human  for distribution to end users. These units also 
Genetics) standard certifies the organisational,  produce pure and high purity technical and 
Sale equipment: technical/technological  operational, management and professional  medicinal gas mixtures.
equipment purchased from third parties and  requirements of Medical Genetics Laboratories to 
supplied for use to customers as part of a service,  carry out special investigations (genetic testing) 
but destined to remain the property of SOL; for  for the identification of genetic diseases.
example, mobile containers, cold converters, etc.
Quality, Safety and Environment 
Policy (quality, safety, environment): general  System (SdG/QSA): that part of the 
principles and guidelines of an organisation,  general management system that includes 
formerly expressed by top management. the organisational structure, planning, 
responsibilities, procedures, processes and 
REACh: EC Regulation no. 1907/2006  resources for drawing up, implementing and 
(Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and  maintaining active and well-defined quality, 
Restriction of Chemicals). Its main aim is to  safety and/or environmental policies.
improve the awareness of the dangers and risks 
deriving from chemical substances, aiming to  Sustainability (see sustainable development)
ensure a high level of protection of human health 
and the environment. Stakeholder: all categories of subjects, private or 
Mobile container: container for compressed,  public, individual or collective, internal or external, 
liquid, dissolved and cryogenic gases used for  that can influence the success of a business or 
packaging products. Mobile containers are:  whose interests are involved in business decisions: 
cylinders, drums, gas cylinders, cylinder bundles,  customers, suppliers, investors, local communities, 
dewars, base units and portable units. employees, unions, public administration, future 
generations, etc.